Jeffrey Epstein was a product of at
least one element of the intelligence
community. I would bet money on it.
>> The CIA, FBI.
>> I don't know who ran him, but he knew a
tremendous amount about my scientific
work in ways that he wasn't supposed to.
Very powerful people told me I needed to
meet him. He certainly was not a
financeier in any standard sense. That
was a cover story. I need to know what
this thing was. And I want to know why
people don't investigate it. I want to
know why nobody asks for the filings.
But I think more than anything, we don't
trust our scientists because our
scientists are the most powerful people
in our society.
>> So, do you think science is being
controlled so that it can be used in a
way that's beneficial?
>> Let's put it this way. Eric Weinstein is
a renowned mathematician
>> and one of the most fearless and
provocative thinkers of our time.
>> He dissects the failures of science,
exposes elite networks, and proposes
bold new theories that could save
humanity.
>> So, top of mind for me at the moment is
the apocalypse and tropical fruit. I'm
not kidding. You're looking at the end,
man.
>> Do you really think this is the start of
the end?
>> Of course it is. Look at how much has
happened in the last month. And the big
problem is that we share one atmosphere.
All of humanity's eggs are in one
basket.
>> So, what needs to happen to get me a
future?
>> So, I think Elon is 100% right. Got to
get to another sphere. But he's being a
complete when it comes to science and
he's being a total hero when it comes to
engineering. But you can't engineer your
way to the stars with the science we
have. The physics opens the universe to
you. But we have a real problem. A new
idea in physics changes the balance of
power in the world. The desire of our
government is to get the science to give
us as much power as possible. But then
they castrate the scientists, belittle
them, destroy their families, their
lives, their ability to earn because our
government isn't good enough to keep its
own secrets.
>> Do you think
>> my employer was a special informant to
the FBI? There's a doctrine that says
physicists don't have free speech.
They're stopping the world's most
important group from making progress.
Physics is the only thing that's going
to get your future. So, let's talk about
this.
I see messages all the time in the
comments section that some of you didn't
realize you didn't subscribe. So, if you
could do me a favor and double check if
you're a subscriber to this channel,
that would be tremendously appreciated.
It's the simple, it's the free thing
that anybody that watches this show
frequently can do to help us here to
keep everything going in this show in
the trajectory it's on. So, please do
double check if you've subscribed and uh
thank you so much because in a strange
way you are you're part of our history
and you're on this journey with us and I
appreciate you for that. So, yeah, thank
you.
[Music]
>> Eric, you are a particularly captivating
individual for the very fact that you
grace so many different intellectual
subjects. As we sit here now having this
conversation, I want to know what
subjects at this moment in in time are
occupying most of your thoughts and most
of your thinking. We have uh a strong
listenership here and I think the
responsibility that I have meeting
someone like you is to understand what
we should be talking about.
>> So top of mind for me at the moment is
tropical fruit and physics.
>> I'm not kidding.
>> Tropical fruit and physics.
>> Yeah. Yeah, but that's just because
you're catching me on a particular day.
>> Okay.
>> And uh my my local um 99 Ranch Market
ran out of Rambutan, which I'm addicted
to.
>> No, I have serious issues with tropical
fruit. I'm I'm completely obsessed by
it.
>> What about this week? What What's been
occupying most of your thoughts this
week?
>> Well, the apocalypse and physics.
>> Why' you say the apocalypse?
>> Um
>> and what do you mean by the apocalypse?
Well, we're we're becoming a nerd to to
the apocalypse. We just watched
hypersonic missiles flam into a modern
city on TV, and
we're watching one of the world's most
remarkable civilizations, the Persians,
take uh direct hits from both Israel and
the US. And I'm just beside myself. I
mean, this is incredibly dramatic
if if you think about, you know, just
the idea of the Jews and the Persians
are both still here. And, you know, one
of the things that I find really just
painful is that
I care about certain certain cultures
that I know well more than others. And
these are two of my absolute favorites.
>> What's what's going on at this moment in
time? because it feels like there's more
conflict than there's ever been. And I
don't know whether that's just a bias
that I have at this moment, but or
whether I'm looking at the wrong social
media algorithm, but it feels like the
world isn't is tense.
>> Well, you're too you're too young for
the Cold War.
>> So, I don't know how old you are.
>> 32.
>> Yeah. So, you you you really missed I
grew up in a different world where
things were tense because there were two
players and you know, it was more or
less the US and the Soviets.
And then we decided it one of the
dumbest things we ever came up with. A
very smart man came up with the dumbest
one of the dumbest ideas which was the
end of history. And you know the the
postworld war I order
is here to stop us from using the
technologies that came out of this. And
I you know I talk about this a lot.
There was a six-month period between
November of 52 and April of 53 where we
unlocked first the power of the nucleus
because we could fuse hydrogen and the
other thing we were able to do was uh
figure out the threedimensional
structure of nucleic acid in the form of
the double helix. And suddenly in in no
time flat we had access to the two most
powerful levers uh humanity has ever
had. perhaps ever will. And so we're
just not in a position to deal with
this. And the remarkable thing,
>> what does that mean, sorry, in terms of
you said we had access to the two most
remarkable things?
>> Well, the hydrogen bomb is not something
that has ever been used by anyone
against
an enemy.
>> This is the first full scale test of a
hydrogen device. If the reaction goes,
we're in the thermonuclear era. 3 2 1.
>> So we're we're awaiting its first use in
war. We we we did use fision devices,
but we didn't use fusion devices, and
they're completely different scales.
So the Hiroshima and Nagasaki are the
only two situations in which a nuke has
ever been used against a a population,
civilian or otherwise.
And we don't know for example whether or
not I don't know um at least co had its
origins in a bioweapons program.
So at some level we're playing with
levers and tools that are so powerful.
Do you realize that the the key
ingredient that made COVID so unique
was a four amino acid sequence inserted
into spike protein. So that's 12
nucleotides coding for four amino acids
shut down planet earth for a couple of
years. That's how powerful this is, you
know, and the very few things that have
this kind of leverage. In 2017, we had a
discovery, a white paper called
attention is all you need. And oddly,
many of us dealing with AI and LLMs and
talking that language don't even realize
there's a paper that you can read that
changed everything.
uh it's eight authors out of Google I
think um and that opened up AI uh
Satoshi in 2008 2009 with the the
solution to the double distributed
double spend problem where you could
effectively port um conservation laws
from the physical world into the digital
world giving us digital gold. Uh but
just as a as a beginning,
>> these ideas that have such high leverage
are
making us powerful beyond
any previous world with no
attendant increase in our wisdom, in our
ability to use and wield these things.
And right now you're seeing the face
where we're unveiling what does drone
warfare look like in FPV? What is
>> FPV? first person
where you know where you're looking
through the lens of the drone as it
slams into a personnel carrier. You
know, maybe maybe you've seen this on
Telegram where you're just watching
individuals being menaced by mechanical
flying birds equipped to kill them. So,
we didn't know what drone warfare looked
like. This is the beginning of drone
warfare. We didn't know what hypersonic
missiles look like when they slam into a
population center. I was just in Tel
Aviv.
>> Yeah.
>> Couple months ago. And I was in, you
know, shelters because the Houthis and
some of the Palestinian Arabs in Gaza
were letting off missiles, but not like
this.
Persians really, you know, and by the
way, they're choosing, I think, to not
inflict maximal damage. I don't I don't
think that they they could have gotten
the body count uh a lot higher if they'd
wanted to. They're trying to speak
the language of violence in a very
measured fashion.
>> So, is this a particularly
tense moment or is it just the bias that
I have because I've not been through
these things before? Is there something
different?
>> You're look I can't even believe the
question. You're looking at the end,
man.
This is the beginning. This is a slow
roll out of a completely different
world. You've been in We've all been in
a completely artificially stagnant
bubble for decades. My entire life up
until now has been in a bubble. The only
people who have seen real life are
extremely old.
>> Who are those people that have seen real
life? Well, I would say people who went
through the depression, World War II,
you know, in China, people who went
through Ma's great leap forward, but
most of us have no idea of what like a
real pandemic like a Spanish flu or
black plague is like. We don't know what
uh Poland went through where they lost,
you know, I don't know, 20 25% of their
population to war. Look at the stat
statistics on the battle of Stalenrad.
We don't really understand. We've we
we've just our whole life has been in a
bubble.
>> You said I'm looking at the end.
>> Yeah.
Remember all the talk about the
singularity? Like Ray Curtzswhil, we're
heading to the singularity. What is the
singularity going to be like?
You're in it.
This is this is now
you're looking at the disintegration of
NATO.
You're looking at people who don't know
how to maintain the systems that were
engineered by their great-grandparents
after World War II. That order
that, you know, you're from the UK.
If you think about how how the UK woke
up to the idea that they had built into
their heads that we are the masters of
the world. So you you saw the beginning
of the end of this concept of the
British Empire. That moment is coming
for the US and it may be that it's
coming for Israel or it may be that it's
coming for Iran. See, in 1967, the
Israelis felt invincible in the Six-Day
War. And then in 1973, they had the Yom
Kipper war, and all the people that they
were, you know, priding themselves as
having beaten, these ferocious enemies
that were arrayed against them woke up
on Yom Kapor in 1973 and bloodied the
Israelis and they surprised them. So,
the Israelis underestimated their enemy
and that changed the entire character of
the country. It went from being a
triumphal state that felt that David
could defeat Goliath to realizing that
Goliath was quite powerful. And you
know, the same thing is going to happen
here. You you saw the celebration that
Trump, you know, had dealt this blow to
the Iranian nuclear facilities. You you
watch the Persians come back. It's going
to we're starting to realize what the
boundaries are as people are more bold
in trying things. Maybe Xi's going to
try to cross the Taiwan Strait. I don't
know. But the era of stasis where very
little happened over very long periods
of time is over.
>> So you think this is the start of
escalation?
>> This is the start of the undoing of the
postworld war II order. The idea that
the postworld war II order is still in
place is astounding.
>> So what happens next?
>> We either scare the crap out of
ourselves and come to our senses or we
don't.
>> We scare the crap out of ourselves and
come to our senses
>> or we don't. Hm. And what does that look
like? Scaring the crap out of ourselves.
>> Well, I don't know. How did you feel
about the hypersonic missiles? Like, and
we started this and I'm talking about
tropical fruit because I'm trying to
figure out whether I I should buy a
jackf fruit and stink up my wife's
kitchen, you know? And on the other
hand, I just saw hypersonic missiles
slam into the buildings I was just in
for meetings in Tel Aviv.
>> There's a a nuclear
threat that weirdly hangs over us. And I
almost feel at some deep level we all
understand and feel that threat that
there's these nine or 10 countries
around the world that have the ability
to basically wipe out all of us at any
moment. I feel like that's almost within
us all. That knowing is within us all.
>> I totally disagree.
>> Really?
>> Yeah. I think about nothing else
sometimes and I still don't believe I
don't believe it.
>> There's a difference between knowing
something in your head and knowing
something embodied.
>> Yeah. I don't know if we're able to
distinguish whether we know it in our
head or whether it's embodied
unconsciously to the point that it's
changing how we act.
Do you know what I mean? Because I'm I'm
now aware that there's nine country and
I'm also aware of that really it's one
individual's
decision as to whether those nuclear
bombs were to fly. So there's a part of
me that's I don't know maybe in
suspended disbelief or at a deeper level
feels an angst
>> but nobody knows what to do with it. And
this is part of what what Elon is all
about, which is that I am convinced that
everybody else needs to be talking about
this much more and I need to be talking
about this much less.
I talk about this all the time.
You know, people are always I want to
survive more than anything else. There's
so many things that I love about this
place and I don't like the idea that
we're all trapped here with one
atmosphere with nine individuals if you
like
who could all wake up on the wrong side
of the bed and say, "Uh,
today's the day."
Part of what I'm so exercised about with
respect to the apocalypse is how many
things I want to save. I mean, this city
just went up in flames.
It's very, it focuses the mind. How many
things can I save in one car load if I
know that the police are not going to
let me come back to my home? Do you save
photos? Do you save musical instruments?
Do you save financial records? What what
is it that you save? You know, it was a
very focusing question. We're already
over it. We can't even remember the
fires.
On that point of the things that give us
meaning, yeah, in our lives,
>> where do you think we're at as a society
in terms of our feelings of meaning and
purpose and connectedness to maybe
something transcendent or I was mulling
over this idea the other day. I actually
posted it on on my LinkedIn page of all
places. I said that um I think we need
to ladder up to things to feel like
anchored and content in life. like we
you know we lad we start with ourselves
and we ladder up to family then
community then maybe a mission or a
purpose and then maybe to something
transcendent and it feels like it
because of the design of our lives and
the optimization of it we we're
increasingly lading up to just
ourselves.
>> Yeah.
>> I think even in my life I'm wondering
whether there's like a layer missing
like which is the religious layer or a
spiritual layer.
>> Do you pray?
>> It's a good question.
>> You come over Friday night and pray with
us. I'd say I do pray.
>> That's pretty weak.
>> But it's not a it's not the way that I
see prayer on in movies and stuff.
>> So that's the thing, right? We have this
idea that somebody puts their hands
together
>> and they just believe.
>> Yeah.
>> But a lot of time when you're praying,
you don't really believe. You're not
sure that you're doing anything
sensible. You you feel ridiculous.
>> Mhm.
>> And that's true. Even if you're a
believer.
>> Do you think we need religion?
>> Yeah.
Said the atheist.
>> Are you an atheist?
>> Yeah.
But I take religion super seriously.
I don't think we're meant to live
without it.
>> That's an interesting conundrum.
>> I don't think so. Everybody gets hung up
on it. I sort of wonder what their
problem is.
>> Please explain. So, you believe that we
aren't meant to live without religion.
We're meant to be orientated by
something transcendent, but you don't
believe that it's real. I think that,
you know, there's this great trick that
I learned when I was scuba diving, which
is that your your need to breathe is
triggered by the buildup of CO2 in your
lungs. And there are all sorts of things
you can do to decrease your need to
breathe. One is you can hyperventilate.
And you can get rid of all of the CO2
that's residual. You can also inerture
your lungs to CO2 by smoking. You can
also breathe out the precious air that
your instincts tell you to hold in. You
can do all these things and then you can
go super deep. You can equal learn how
to equalize the pressure in your ears by
holding your nose and and these
techniques. And suddenly you're far
deeper than you've ever been. And you're
exploring the rocks and the fishes and
there's a turtle and there's an eel
and you get a message. You're out of
air.
And you look up and you see, I am really
far from the surface. This is
terrifying.
That's what happens when you unhook
the proximate which is air hunger
from the ultimate which is the need to
breathe.
So thirst is proximate to dehydration.
Hunger is proximate to the need for
nourishment.
In part, religion and prayer is there to
keep us from unhooking
all of these protective things and just
turning life into a hoot. You can have a
hoot without religion, but if everybody
has a hoot, the whole society collapses.
Some point I think a president of the
United States may have said that people
who defend this country were suckers.
Something like that.
And I thought, "God damn you." Maybe
it's true even,
but how many families have have received
a a flag draped coffin
and felt pride
like we lost something precious, but we
are part of the American tapestry in a
way that few families can be. And when
we outsmart ourselves, when we unhook
all of these things,
you know, every single young woman has
an idea about what the opportunity cost
of not going on only fans is
before. We didn't know what the
opportunity cost. There was no
measurement of it.
We're becoming too sophisticated. We've
got too much information. We're
deranging ourselves. We're having a
blast.
and we're completely undoing all of the
superructure of the world.
The number of people who don't have
children or want children or
my kids make fun of me. I just go around
telling people to make babies
and it's the most normal thing in the
world.
I meet parents who don't harass their
own children to get married and have
families. Like what are you doing?
the superructures of the world.
>> Yeah.
>> One being family family.
>> Yeah. Traditions.
>> Yeah.
>> Things that ground that connect you to.
>> And what are the symptoms of that
unhooking from the superructures of the
world?
>> How much do you care about things? How
much do you care about people saying
your name four generations out?
>> Me?
>> Yeah. You.
>> You're probably asking the wrong person
because I just don't think legacy
matters because I'm going to be dead.
>> That's right. But you're I'm asking all
of you who believe that.
>> Yeah.
>> That is so sad.
It is so weird that no one cares about
their legacy because they don't see a
future. So what I'm trying to say is
I'm desperate to get you a future so
that you care.
>> What needs to happen to get me a future?
>> Something remarkable. Something utterly
remarkable because it's not it's not
going that way. And that's what that's
what the physics part is. Like I talk
about physics constantly. Physics is the
only thing that's going to get to your
future.
>> And how how
>> well right now the big problem is that
we share one atmosphere.
>> Yeah. So everything that can
all the really bad things whether it's
pathogens like imagine something
coidlike but far worse
or climate or uh radiation.
All of these things don't know anything
about borders. To an extent there's a
southern and a northern hemisphere that
are separate but even that's not a great
border. So, we can draw all the borders
on land that we want, but we still have
basically one or two atmospheres. And I
would really say one. And we've now
gotten powerful enough to really screw
it up,
right? And so,
>> through nukes or through carbon
emissions,
>> all three of those things. Okay? Right?
>> Everything that you care about is on one
sphere with one one atmosphere.
And I think Elon is 100% right. We got
to get to another sphere. I can't
believe
that he's focused on Mars. I mean, by by
sure, focus on the moon, focus on Mars,
focus on chemical rockets,
but throw a couple billion towards
physics for God's sakes. So, let us get
it. Let us get serious about exploring
the cosmos.
This is our womb. This is not our home.
We're You know, you know that song,
Closing Time?
>> No, I don't.
>> Closing time.
Uh, you don't have to go home, but you
can't stay here. I think it's about
birth.
Yeah, it's time to be born.
You can't stay here.
This is completely obvious to me and I
am the only person who who talks this
way and so I sound like a lunatic and I
get tired of it. But the real reason it,
you know, it's about the mangoes, it's
about the rambutan, it's about the
music,
it's about all the things that I love.
So why would you want to leave?
>> I want to take it with us and I want to
see what else is out there and I want to
meet people.
>> Why don't you just stay here and fix
this planet?
>> Cuz you can't.
The odds of fixing one sphere for a
permanent future. You've already talked
about you don't care about the future.
>> I don't have children yet either. So I
don't Yeah, I don't have that.
>> But I My children don't have children
and their children don't have children
and I care about them and they're not
even here.
We've got some time left here though.
>> Well, we did.
If you looked what's happened in the
last month,
it's coming undone. Pakistan and India.
>> Do you really think this is the start of
the end?
>> I I have no idea where I am.
>> Of course it is.
The World War II order was keeping it.
It's like control rods keeping the world
from going super critical.
>> Can't we just put the rods back
together?
>> Have you looked at who we had an
election with Donald Trump versus Kla
Harris in the US?
Tell me what's going on in the UK. What
are we doing in the mayoral race for for
New York? I don't know if you're
watching what I'm watching. Look at the
mess
that's going on in Gaza.
Russia is nuclear. Israel is presumably
nuclear. Pakistan and India are nuclear.
The US is nuclear. Iran is almost
nuclear. China's pissed off about Iran
because it was trying to make a play
through the region. North Korea is
watching.
Oh, and look at the UK in turmoil.
UK is a very nuclear country. To say
nothing of France.
This is not going to go well. We just we
and by the way look at how much is
happening with AI,
right?
Everything was really stagnant. So I I
have this famous challenge that I give
people which is go into a room
and subtract the screens and forget
about style. How do you know you're not
in 1973?
Like drones are the beginning.
Imagine I needed a refill on my coffee
and you know you did something and a
drone brought me a coffee to not
interrupt the flow. That would we know
we weren't in 73 but in general drones
aren't a big part of our lives.
These robots I've never seen a human
robot actually doing anything other than
on YouTube where it's like doing the
mashed potato.
>> Mhm.
>> So in general yeah things were just
really stagnant for a really long time.
And during that period of stagnation, we
we had this crazy narrative which is
like the dizzying pace of change is
making it almost impossible to keep up
while things were incredibly stagnant.
And so it just shows you sort of this
weird way in which our our minds can be
programmed to completely ignore what
we're experiencing.
Is there not a chance that we'll just
continue to
>> Okay, if you want to go with chance,
look, until until you're worried about
your great great grandchildren. I don't
want to have this conversation with you.
I want you to start caring about that. I
want you to go to church.
You you're heir to a great tradition.
One of the most important traditions in
the world has to be Christianity because
both Judaism and Islam are screwed up
over the law. We're legal traditions.
Christianity, not so much. And I think I
first time somebody crystallized that
for me was Sam Harris.
It's a really important point, but
you're heir to an incredibly powerful
and important tradition. And if we don't
have a Christian substrate, we're in
real trouble because all of our society
is based on on an assumption of a
Christian substrate.
You're advising me to be
Christian in tradition but not in
necessarily in belief.
>> Well, this is the thing. You're
alienated because you think that you
have to be a believer in order to go in.
Otherwise, you're faking it.
>> Yeah.
>> Get over yourself. That's not how it
works.
>> That's true. That's me just me being
honest. I do think that if I went to a
church and I I sung and I I prayed and
stuff and I didn't believe I would that
I'd be like it'd be it'd be fake.
>> Okay.
Do do you imagine that all those people
who go to church are just sitting there
100% sure that there's a there's a Jesus
to pray to?
>> Do you know any Christians?
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. They're not like that.
They sneak off and do bad things. If
they were confident that Jesus was
watching everything that they were doing
and they were constantly talking about
how they sin,
I'm a sinner. Right? It's a very
complicated, interesting
piece of kit. And my claim is that,
you know,
I said the Lord's Prayer as part of
going to high school.
>> I sat in a church, a chapel at a high
school in LA that had a stained glass
window with an American soldier
trampling a Nazi flag into the stained
glass window.
was amazing.
>> How does this link to me? I was about to
say, can't don't you have faith that
we'll just be able to kind of keep this?
It feels like a bit of a standoff.
>> So, you're the one with the faith. I'm
the one who's nervous. You look, you're
the believer.
I'm not going to trust that. No, no. I'm
going to get my hands dirty and try to
do something about it. Do
>> you know what? I think in part it's
because as you said I've been alive for
32 years and through that time has been
relative peace especially in the western
world. So it's all I've ever known. So I
I'm born with this assumption that this
is just kind of how it goes. That
there's always threat but we kind of
figure it out.
>> Come to the Pacific Palisades. It looks
like Gaza.
>> Yeah.
Yeah. I've got some friends that lost
their houses there. You know
>> checked out Lahina in uh West Maui
recently.
>> No.
It's an absolute disaster.
>> Is AI a protagonist in this story? Is
it?
>> Sure.
>> In what in what respect?
>> Well, what do you what do you think
about it? We're going through going
through a wild revolution at the moment
and I just hear people saying the
dumbest things about it.
What do I think about I'm scared I might
say something dumb now, but
>> Well, let's try because I'm going to say
something dumb. I think well I look at
both sides of the coin and I look at the
opportunity and the and the threat. My
concern when I hear about the CEOs of
the biggest aerial companies in the
world talking about this fast takeoff is
that the transition will be too quick
for us to adjust. And when they say fast
takeoff, they mean that AGI like arrives
and it the rate of its learning
accelerates so quickly that it really um
disrupts the need for human beings to do
a lot of the sort of jobs we're doing
today that are centered on intelligence.
>> Which jobs require intelligence?
>> Pretty much all of them these days
because we've had the industrial
revolution where we've outsourced a lot
of the labor to machines. But
>> I don't think so
>> really. Yeah, I think a large portion of
our conversation was actually an LLM.
We didn't actually get to the stuff
outside of the LLM. You and I are two
chat bots for the most part. You're a
good one.
>> Thank you.
>> I'm on a huge I'm on a huge platform
again, you know, but my claim is is that
that's the really disturbing part that
more or less we're LLMs. More or less we
don't do a single intelligent thing all
day long. And the reason that they're
able to mimic us is because we don't
realize that intelligence is a last
resort for us. We try to automate
like, you know, if you think about
greetings,
your assistant was very kind. I got out
of a black car that you guys sent around
and I was greeted with the phrase,
"There he is, the man, the myth." And I
knew what was coming next, the legend.
Right? because that is a sort of
humorous way of giving an intimate
greeting, but it's still an LLM.
And I'm not saying that your assistant
is an LLM. I'm saying that more or less
what we do all day long is LLM
interactions.
Hey buddy, how are you? Good. Good.
Things have been really busy. How about
you? Well, I got some travel coming up.
Kind of excited about it, but I have to
get through some work first. I
understand. That's an entirely scripted
conversation.
That's why I'm trying to say that I want
to do podcasting that is outside of the
LLM model. I don't want to do just
dangerous, stupid stuff, but I want to
talk about things that I've never
explored where I don't have something,
you know, ready.
>> Do you think AI will ever break out of
the
the LLM or will it expand?
>> I think the LLMs will.
I don't see I think that waiting for AGI
as the problem is a is a bad idea. I
think the problems are going to get here
far before AGI. I think even that the
AGI expectation is something we're
trained to do. Do you think AGI is
coming? Do you think we'll survive AGI?
Will AGBI be good or bad? All of that's
pre-programmed into you. Why do you Why
are you waiting for AGI? Did you not
alpha fold three? Did you Did you track
that? Do you know about this?
>> Is that Was that the chess game? the
well it's the chess game that became the
protein folding game. All right.
>> You want to talk about great games?
Protein folding. Now that's a game.
>> I have no no knowledge of this at all.
>> Okay. What do you know about proteins?
>> Very little.
>> Okay. Think about proteins as tiny
machines.
>> Yeah.
>> That there's copying machine. There's a
a scissors and a shearing machine.
There's a a light making machine. All
sorts of things. And all of those
machines are weirdly coded.
Imagine that you had like a a children's
show and uh a bunch of girl superheroes.
They all had necklaces with uh 20
different kinds of beads around their
neck. And so when they needed a machine,
they'd take off the necklace, they'd
throw it into a thing called a ribosome,
the ribosome would take these 20 kinds
of pearls and suddenly it would build
you a car or a spaceship or a gun or who
knows what. Well, that's that's that's
the story of DNA, RNA, and uh and
protein.
The only thing is, isn't it weird that a
linear sequence suddenly crumples up
into a three-dimensional object that
does something? So, for example, I don't
have you ever seen um these Turkish
rabbits that glow in the dark?
>> No.
>> Okay. So, they took green fluorescent
protein out of jellyfish.
>> Yeah. and they uh spliced them into the
nucleic acids of rabbits and the Turks
bred all of these glow-in-the-dark
bunnies. And what that is is a
structure. So there's there's something
called secondary structure and protein
where sometimes you get these spirals
called alpha helyses. And then sometimes
you get a two-dimensional sheet that's
made from taking uh a switchback in in
strings of amino acids. And then if you
wrap that around, you don't have a beta
sheet, you have a beta barrel. And these
beta barrels are the glow-in-the-dark
aspect of green fluorescent protein.
Okay? And
what we didn't know was how a series of
acts and G's could code for sequences of
amino acids could form three-dimensional
structures. So if you just read DNA, you
didn't know, well, that's going to be a
a sports car.
>> Yeah.
Alphold figured it out. For the most
part, like to a to an enormous extent,
humans were stuck there.
>> And what does that mean?
>> It means that you could uh I don't know,
you could target your enemies that have
particular regions uh on their cell
surfaces and you could come up with
proteins that only attach to them and
attack. It could mean anything. Could
mean nanoobots.
I don't know what it means, but my point
is is that that's already here and
you're not focused on it.
And you're thinking AGI. And the funny
part is is that's your LLM that got
programmed to wait for AGI.
>> Well, I heard, you know, people that I
think are very smart, much smarter than
me talk about the
>> Don't listen to them.
>> Elon,
>> sure.
>> I mean, he he says that it's our biggest
existential threat is a AI.
>> Elon
has become the outsourcing for much of
our intelligence. And if Elon means
anything to you,
he's really saying to you, "Don't listen
to me. Do something remarkable."
He's saying, "Where is everybody? Why is
there only one Elon?
There used to be lots of them?"
>> Why is there only one Elon?
>> Yeah, not the right question. Where
where did all the other Elons go?
>> Same question, is it not?
No, I think that the why is there only
one Elon makes Elon feel more singular.
You know, if you ever get a chance to go
to Capidokia or Bryce National Park in
Utah, you see what happens, which is
that you'll have a stone that was
resting on the soil and suddenly the
wind starts to erode everything except
the compactified soil right under that
stone and you get what's called a fairy
chimney or a hood. And so the claim is
is that sometimes you get these isolated
structures
And the key point is everything else
eroded away.
We're supposed to have tons of Elon
and everybody else got taken out.
What or who took them out?
Look at how much trouble Elon has being
Elon.
Look, we keep hearing about him. You
know,
he's on drugs. Great. take drugs. No,
I'm not kidding. Do you know how many
amazing people take drugs?
If you care about jazz, jazz is a whole,
you know, it's a history of drugs.
Whenever I'm listening to Ray Charles,
I'm hearing heroin.
Okay. What are they doing at Burning
Man?
They're trying to live luxuriously under
oppression simultaneously luxuriously
and as dirty and disgusting as you'll
ever be. Hopefully, they're having tons
of eye-opening, mind-bending experiences
chasing some way of getting out of the
LLM.
And you know, my feeling about this is
it's not even honest. I I I believe that
Elon, for example, does understand that
population and growth is really
important, but I also think he just
enjoys making babies. And in in a weird
way, this idea of I'm going to have an
empire of my children is a forbidden
concept.
Try explaining that to HR.
You know, it's like, what did you say at
work? So, the key point is Elon is
barely able to be Elon.
Do you think we're overestimating the
impact AI is going to have?
Because people, you know, a lot of
people see as this really fundamentally
transformative.
>> No. You don't think we're
underestimating it?
>> I think it's going to be
I I I think that what AI means to us is
is bizarre. We've we've come up with
this whole script about AGI and
it's going to take everything we do
that's repetitive is on the chopping
block. And since almost everything we do
is repetitive,
we don't need to get to AGI. We just
need to do things where lots of people
create lots of repetitive data and then
we tokenize it. We train the AI on the
tokens and then for the most part it
says, you know, it it doesn't matter. It
can be a photograph. It can be music.
Whatever it is, amino acids, just give
me a large enough data set and let me
add it and, you know, take a hike for
for a little while. I'll train on it and
then I'll know how to do that. You know
what? It's bad at things that where
there isn't much data.
So I I just I just found out about these
orphan proteins where like everybody's
got a different version of hemoglobin.
>> Mhm.
>> But you know the the quadinary structure
of he hemoglobin is these four hem
groups you know four different proteins
around a central element. What happens
when you have a protein that has no
analog anywhere else? The the system
doesn't have the ability to learn it.
If if I train you on the blues and you
find out what a 12 bar blues progression
is, then you find out that there's a
variation where this, you know, the
second bar goes to the fourth rather
than just staying on the one for four
bars. And then sometimes the fourth bar
has a seven in it to create tension.
Okay? So, it's going to learn every
single form of the blues like that.
And because there's a large corpus of
that stuff, it's going to get really
good at blues music,
you know, as a but if you take something
that basically
never happens, it's not going to have an
easy ability to train and give you more.
So I think that AI
is almost certainly going to transform
the economy because everything that we
we know how to do through education
creates repetitive behaviors.
We don't know how to educate for
creativity and genius. We know how to
educate for doing higher level things.
So radiology is a great example.
Radiologists are, you know, some of the
first uh in the crosshairs.
I'm going to stare at some imaging
and I'm going to say, I think that's a
tumor. I think that's benign. And it's
going to say, just give me give me give
me all of these tokens. Like, well,
they're x-rays. They're cats. No, no,
they're just tokens.
So, yeah.
It's going to start to automate away
every repetitive behavior and then
what's going to be left is the tiny
number of things that aren't really
highly repetitive or things where we
really care that a human does it. Very
interesting what's happened with chess.
I don't know if you've been following
chess. I loosely understand it mainly
because I've spoken to a lot of AI
experts and they often reference chess
as as an example where
>> it was one of the first things that
humans did that we really cared about
that fell.
So they've been longer
in the AI
tractor beam than any of the rest of us
in some sense.
>> How did it fall?
>> Through Deep Blue and IBM and Gary
Kasparov.
But does that mean that people people
aren't interested in chess anymore? What
are you saying?
>> No, no, no. That's the whole point.
So Magnus Carlson, the greatest chess
player of our time and perhaps of all
time, was on Joe Rogan and Joe asked him
the simple question, can your phone beat
you? He's like, yeah, easily. So the
point is, we can't compete
with, I don't know, Stockfish or what,
whatever the top chess programs of our
time. I don't know anymore. But nobody
cares about those programs except for AI
experts.
We care about the drama
of,
you know, Anan versus Carlson,
>> two humans,
>> two humans, because it's about us. We're
we're very narcissistic in this way. And
so there was a period, and you know,
this is something that my wife uh
tried to popularize. So she said this
thing about the golden age of AI
complimentarity
where the AIs aren't good enough to take
over from us but they're amazing tools
and so there's a period where we're
teamed up you know the prompt
engineering revolution they're not good
enough to come up with their own prompts
and a great example of this that she and
I have been talking about is the cyborg
chess era which is a period where humans
and the AI I could form teams that would
do better, but at some point the AI just
looks at the human and says, "You're
just holding me back."
>> You've got two children.
>> Yeah.
>> When they're thinking about their career
prospects with all that you think and
know and believe about the future that
we're heading towards, what what kind of
career advice would you be giving to
them?
>> Oh, I've given them terrible career
advice. I give I gave them somewhat
different career advice. So to my son,
my my advice was do the hardest most
technical thing you possibly can do and
be prepared to use that ability, that
facility in different ways than you're
you're honing it. But train yourself
with my daughter. Um I think she cares
deeply about people and you know there's
a typical male female divide. And I'm
not, by the way, I'm not going to talk
overly much about them because I try to
keep them out.
But she is uh you know somebody who is
taking the same level of analytic
ability but putting it in the service of
the law and trying to help people who
are you know really unfortunate. She's
very idealistic. And so at some level
the law is not going to allow us to have
AI lawyers for quite some time. It's not
going to trust anything. We we've got
jury uh trials and and judges and a
legal system that's written into our
founding documents.
To the average person, I would say get
your board in the water
and prepare to paddle like all get out.
The tsunami of a lifetime is coming and
nothing your elders have seen is going
to prepare.
There's no good advice to give that's
specific. Let's put it this way. But one
of the things when people tell me about
their moving from one city to another, I
have a phrase that nobody likes, which
is every place is over.
Oh, I'm moving to Austin. Yeah, it's
over. Miami, it's over. Nashville, over.
You know, all these places are over. And
every occupation that is named is over.
I'm going to be a dentist,
radiologist, accountant,
teacher. These are all over.
whatever is coming. Get flexible. Get
good. Get good on a bunch of different
stuff.
Learn how to think across disciplines. I
have no idea what what's going to be
left for us.
But, you know, somebody's going to come
out on top.
And I I hate to tell people that you
should try to come out on top.
I don't think it's healthy to have
everyone trying to be world class.
I think you should be able to just have
a life.
Now, I have a golden retriever. I don't
know that it's the greatest golden
retriever in the world. Sometimes I
think it is, but it does a lot of dumb
stuff. But he's my golden retriever. I
just don't think it I think that this
mania for optimization. Like if you look
at your own videos, you'll find some of
the best performing videos are this is
how to succeed. This is how to get
anyone you want. This is how to get out
of a bad situation. People just want
capacity.
But for what?
Okay, you've optimized your day. You've
optimized your health. Your social media
is optimized.
Now what?
>> Now what? I don't know
>> what should be then say you know is it
the is it time to just one would say
well now I one would incorrectly say
well now I can play with my golden
retriever and then one would say well
you should have been playing with your
golden retriever the whole time
let me put it a little differently
through some bizarre accident
I've gotten a chance to meet incredible
people that I don't even talk about who
I've met you You know, I've got a chance
to see the world. I haven't seen South
America, but I've seen most the other
continents other than the Antarctic.
I've had a really rich life.
Take somebody who hasn't had those
opportunities,
but they got a chance to have three
kids.
I'm not sure I wouldn't trade places. I
so enjoyed raising my children.
And it's available to everyone.
It's such a strange thing that we're
talking about optimization, all this
stuff. I I get to think about the the
substrate of the universe, theoretical
physics. I dream about visiting the
stars. I dream about multiple dimensions
of time, meeting aliens, all sorts of
things.
I still think having kids was like
unbeatable.
I'm so sad that it's over. I'm so sad
that they moved out. I cannot believe
that I was dumb enough to live in a
society that doesn't believe in having
your kids with you your whole life.
The idea that we look at places where
kids live at home as backwards is beyond
me.
And shout out to uh the entire Indian
subcontinent,
you know. It's just like family is
everything. They drive me crazy.
But it it's just meaning is available
for you.
And again,
you know, every time I get a chance to
eat a rambutan, it's one of my favorite
fruits. Mangoes, rambutans, jackf fruit,
sithafal if you can get custard apple.
The amount of pleasure I get. I've never
had a good custard apple in the entire
time I've lived in the US. Not one. I've
had a frozen one imported from Taiwan.
You get this cheramoya. Just get out of
here chairoya. You're not good.
Great custard apple. Great sith follow.
What a pleasure to be on this earth. and
it's available to almost anyone. I just
think that you can find meaning,
you know, for God's sakes, go to Spotify
if you have a a connection, if you can
afford a connection to Spotify and put
in Pablo Casal's version of the Boach
Cello Suites.
You're as rich as you need to be. I've
flown private. I'd much prefer to listen
to Pablo Casal playing the the jealous
suites in economy than to be to be to be
deprived of real luxury.
I don't know. I just to me meaning is
everywhere.
I can't swing a cat without hitting
meaning.
Have you always been like that or is
that something that you've cultivated?
the point about being able to swing a
cat and find meaning. So many people
that would be listening now could swing
a a 100 mile stick and wouldn't hit
meaning in their lives. But you seem to
be able to find it in the the purer
things, the more simple things. And I'm
wondering if that's something that we
can all cultivate with a change of
perspective or if it's just the way that
you've always been.
Why is Joe Rogan such a big deal? You
ever listen to Joe Rogan talk about
pugilism? Two gentlemen beating the crap
out of each other as poetry,
>> as chess.
I could listen to Joe talk about MMA for
days.
>> Yeah.
>> You know, the story of Mighty Mouse, the
guy trapped in some, I don't know,
flyweight division with unbelievable
skills who never gets to meet a
formidable enemy, you know?
Do you think that's a privilege? Do you
think that there's a privilege in being
able to craft a story? Because so much
of the meaning you're describing there
comes from these great stories. And not
everybody is able to craft the story
upon seeing something. You probably look
at this item in front of me, this glass,
and create a story about it that drives
meaning that makes you feel something.
>> I worry about its manufacturer. How is
it that we got a surface of revolution?
What is what is the industrial process?
How do I take a picture of this and get
a a photograph of the machine that made
it. You know that fly that has been
buzzing around us this entire interview?
Yeah.
>> Do you remember when Obama had a fly?
>> Yeah. And he caught it in
>> Wow.
>> Yeah.
>> The confidence of that man.
>> See, I'd try that and I'd miss and I'd
screw it up in front of millions of
people,
you know? It's like I I took so much
meaning away from that fly.
>> Were you trying to or is that just a
sort of pre
>> We all did.
>> Not everyone. Some people would have
gone. How was it that you knew exactly
what I was talking about? Because he
captured a moment.
He was the girl in the red dress. You
know, there's this thing that women say,
not every woman can wear red. Well, not
every man
can grab a fly with confidence.
I I think I think we all see this. I
think we all see beauty everywhere. You
remember that movie American Beauty with
the the plastic bag that gets in the air
funnel going up?
And the key point is the ability just to
see beauty wherever you find it.
You know, everything behind you means
something to me. The letter B uh is
strange to me that there's only one
phonetic alphabet and that every
phonetic alphabet is descended from it,
you know.
I I I
basically view everything as a
hyperlink. I just want to click on the
world and see what it goes to.
>> Not everybody does though.
>> But we do.
>> They don't make the step is what I'm
saying. Because people would see the bee
and nothing would cross their,
>> you know, it's funny.
>> There's an absolutely horrible account
that has been just dogging me for years
trying to make my life miserable.
And
>> a social media account.
>> Yeah. Doesn't matter. Yeah.
>> And the person said, "You know, one
thing I just never understand is
he's not
he's not hawking a book.
He He's just talking. Why Why are his
numbers high?"
The answer is everybody cares about this
stuff. They want an invitation.
One of the funniest things that gets
said about me on social media is he goes
on forever and he never says anything
and then like I look at the word clouds
of things that I' I've talked about and
people are just googling everything
incessantly.
You know, if you didn't know who Pablo
Cassals was, now you do. Now you know
what a real chis sounds like. Um
I don't know. I just
I can't believe that I'm so far through
this life that there's so little left.
I can't believe this doesn't go on
forever.
>> My people just got hit and
you know you want to talk about the
river and the sea,
that river is not the Jordan River and
that sea is not the Mediterranean.
The Arab world stretches from the
Atlantic with Morocco
right up to the what is it Shhat Alabia
waterway that divides Iraq from Iran.
And I don't think
this is stable.
There is no way in which
we should be fighting like this. This is
ridiculous.
Trump Trump used the F-word. I mean,
he's getting taking a ton of crap. Why
would you use the F word? Well, isn't it
interesting that people view Trump as so
tacky?
You know, he's he's got this Queen's
sort of bluster. He doesn't doesn't of
uh
finalist clubs at Harvard or Skull and
Bones or whatever.
No, Trump doesn't use the F-word for a
reason. That he needs it once in a blue
moon and it better mean something.
And he said this to Iran and he said
this to Israel. These two two countries
have been fighting for so long. They
don't know what the [__] they're doing.
He didn't make a mistake. The rest of
the world has just forgotten how to
calibrate.
What do you see Trump in? How is he
clothed?
He's almost always in a suit and tie and
he almost never says the f- word.
And it's carefully calibrated to get
everybody's attention. And we're so
asleep that we don't even hear it.
This is World War II and it's already
started.
Biden was there in the Oval Office.
non-compassment meant and I was being
told don't worry there's a a committee
that has replaced him
because I was talking about the fact
that he can't be president.
I I just don't know what we're doing.
I'm so mystified by everybody else. You
know, it's like Elon makes sense to me.
I'm not Elon. I'm very different person,
but at least Elon makes sense to me.
Not 100% but 98% Elon makes sense to me.
It's everybody else that I'm completely
confused about.
>> What part of what Elon is saying makes
so much sense to you?
>> Oh jeez. Everything. One, we have to
have babies. We have to keep going. Two,
we it can't all be about problems.
You have to be excited to be alive every
morning.
You have to work your ass off your whole
life. You want to know one of the most
beautiful things that ever happened?
Somebody telling Elon that he was the
world's richest human being. He said,
"Huh, it's interesting."
Okay, back to work.
Amazing, right? There's no reward
that he can't have
more of by stopping work and enjoying
his wealth except doing stuff. And
I was born in this country. My parents
were born in this country. My
grandparents on one side were not, but
my grandparents on the other side were.
Elon is so American.
That cowboy spirit
that it he does all sorts of stuff I
can't stand. I don't want to see one
more of those Pepe memes ever. I really
don't. What the [__] is his problem?
Okay, I don't know him at all,
but Elon at his best is is the United
States.
You know, anything is possible here. And
we and we just waste our lives on
interpersonal drama.
He wastes his life to an enormous extent
as a troll.
I cannot. That's the part of him that I
don't understand is one why he's not
focused 100% on physics. I think he sees
it as going through grock and AI. He
doesn't want to trust humans. I think he
sees Mars as energizing to engineers and
the stars are innovating to engineers
because the science there's no amount of
engine you can't engineer your way to
the stars with the science we have.
But he's he's being a complete [__]
when it comes to science and he's being
a total hero when it comes to
engineering.
Um,
but he is the quintessential American.
>> A business is only as good as the people
inside it. So, how do you make sure
you're hiring the best? Our sponsor,
LinkedIn, can help you find these
applicants quickly. I believe in taking
time to hire slowly. But I also
understand that once you've decided to
hire, you want to get the ball rolling
and get the best candidates in front of
you to start interviewing. And that's
where paying to promote your role on
LinkedIn makes all the difference
because you'll get applicants seven
times faster than if you post your job
for free. And even though slower, more
considered hiring is important, you
never want your hiring platforms to be
what's holding you back. LinkedIn keeps
pace. It takes care of the heavy
lifting, sending you highly skilled
candidates that you wouldn't find
anywhere else. So when the time comes to
make your next hire, make it count and
promote your job on LinkedIn. Head to
linkedin.com/doac.
That's linkedin.com/doac
and terms and conditions apply.
>> A second ago you said you can't believe
it doesn't go on forever.
>> Yeah.
>> You or the universe or
>> I can't believe my story doesn't go on
forever. Look, I've never died before so
I have no experience with it. So as far
as I know, I've always been alive
and it'll always go on that way. But
there's another thing that, you know, I
I've talked about occasionally,
which is I'm not the most publicspirited
human being.
You know, I I am somebody who will take
the last the last rambutan,
you know, and I know that you're not
supposed to do that in almost any
culture on earth, but sometimes it just
sitting there bothers me. Okay? So, I'm
not the I'm not the classiest person on
earth,
but I'll tell you something. If you have
a kid and you have a choice about eating
the ramatan yourself or giving the
rambatan to your child, this it's a
no-brainer. You you're going to enjoy
the ramatan so much more if you give it
to your kid
and you'll see.
>> And that's the way in which this goes on
forever.
That's great. I mean, just how many
young people do I have to yell at?
I don't know if I want to have kids. I
don't want to bring anyone into this
horrible world.
>> Why do you
>> have kids?
>> It bothers you. I can see it personally
bothers you.
>> Do you have any idea how much hate there
is right now for Israel?
Do you have any idea how destabilizing
this action against Iran was?
Do you have any idea how many people
have suffered for how long under the
mullers?
We are being cheated of Persia.
I'm not talking about Iran for the
Persians. I'm talking about we are
cheated of Persia. The entire planet,
one of the greatest societies on earth
taken off the line.
I look
You're catching me on the wrong week.
I I don't want to dwell on it.
This is just incredibly irresponsible.
We're not going to survive this.
Israel is certainly not going to survive
this.
If the Abbramic world does not get its
head out of its ass, if the Christian
world does not start to stand up for
itself without becoming this Christ is
king nightmare.
You know, I was in Tel Aviv before this
all happened and I I just said it from
the stage. Make the Middle East
Christian again.
Does nobody understand their role is
sort of my question.
How can you have Bethlehem without a
strong Christian presence?
>> Have you ever been to the Church of the
Holy Supplr?
>> No.
>> Can I give you another assignment?
>> Yeah.
>> Get off your ass and go. You got the
money. Walk the stations of the cross.
And for God's sakes, stop with the issue
about belief.
You can pray like the rest of us. We're
not sure if we're praying. We're not
sure if the thing is hooked up and
anyone's listening.
You have the right to go back even with
doubt, even with knowledge. And you have
the right to believe about a tomorrow,
you know, where where you're not going
to be, but people are going to be
mentioning your name.
>> When you say that your your people are
under attack, who are you referencing as
your people?
I would in general there's several
groups of people that I would describe
as my people. The Jews would be one,
dyslexics would be another, Americans
would be another,
scientists would be another. It depends
on on what these things think. But right
now, I'm thinking about the Jews and I'm
thinking about the fact that the social
media businesses have lost complete
control of
uh the bot farms and we're just seeing
this unbel I I I feel like I'm living
through the 1930s again. I I we've seen
this movie before.
It doesn't end well.
You know what happened in Gaza is an
unbelievable tragedy.
And that tragedy was partially
architected by the United States of
America shoving a two-state solution
down the throats of Palestinian Arabs
who absolutely do not want a two-state
solution
and the creation in part of the
situation where Israel has a hand, the
US has a hand, the Palestinian Arabs
have a hand. the creation of Hamas
and and the promotion of this just
unbelievable genius Senoir, the leader
of Hamas, who is continuing to best BB
Netanyahu from the grave.
You know, it's just an amazing feat.
Nobody reads anymore, as you know. Um,
there's an old Sherlock Holmes story
called The Problem at Thor Bridge. You
ever heard of it?
>> No.
>> So, you're British. Um,
Sherlock Holmes gets called in on a case
in which
um
there's a murder
and the murder is traced the murder is
traced to this gentleman who still
exists.
Uh
what Sherlock Holmes figures out is that
it's not a murder, it's a suicide in
which the gun will
fall into the river at Thor Bridge
because it's tied to a weight and the
person uses the suicide
to frame someone else. You know, it's
just one of these genius little
vignettes. And that's what Senoir was.
He was a a genius. He he knew he was
going to die.
>> Who was Sinoir? Sinoir is the person who
who's committed suicide. Sinir's suicide
was an IDF assisted suicide. I wrote
about this almost instantly after the
October 7th invasion. It didn't make any
sense that Gaza would undertake such an
act against Israel given the asymmetry.
And what this mirrored was that before
the 1990s. So you think Sinoir committed
suicide to then cause the people of Gaza
to invade Israel on
>> No.
Senoir would be happy enough for all the
Gazins to die.
And so what he did was he architected a
situation in which Israel would be
compelled to respond using the wrong
tools.
He tricked Israel. And you know, I I'm
very confident to to talk about this
because if you check my old tweets, I
say IDF assisted suicide
and monken by proxy and zukwang, right?
And I said these are the concepts.
Familiarize yourself because Israel is
going to invade Gaza
and I knew what was going to happen
because took me like why would you do
this? It doesn't make sense from first
order logic, but third and fourth order
logic, you're like, "Oh, of course it
makes sense." This is hybrid war. The
most important thing for Senoir is
video.
>> Why?
>> Look at the effect of the video. The
video of Gaza
has turned the world to an extent
against Israel that's sort of
inconceivable.
There's a doctrine called hybrid warfare
and I think it came out of
the US in the early 2000s and it says
that the kinetic component of warfare,
the killing, the actual shooting and the
planes and the bombs and all this kind
of stuff
is
not the major component.
The social media is really important.
The video is important. The mimedic
complex is important.
And
Israel has an advantage over the Gazan
Arabs
in kinetic warfare.
And Senoir knew that. He was like,
"Brilliant.
All we need to do is force Israel to
come after us." And this is this thing I
was going to say before the 1990s we had
a spate of killings of policemen firing
on people who had pulled toy guns on
them. And we would we would say things
and I remember this like whatever you do
don't point a toy gun at a policeman.
You're it's don't you realize what's
going to happen? And then somebody
coined the phrase
police assisted suicide.
The policeman is the instrument.
That's what I knew was going to happen.
And for better or for worse, BB just
couldn't figure out where he was. And BB
was dumber and Senoir was smarter.
>> Is there any way back from here? Because
you said this is World War II.
>> Well, the the way there is, but it's
slim and it's evaporating.
>> I mean, almost everything depends on
Saudi Arabia and the and the Iranians,
the Persians.
If the Persians didn't take this
opportunity to rise up against their
oppressors,
I don't know what they're waiting for.
Yes, you're going to get killed in some
numbers, but you have to figure out
whether you're interested in tyranny or
not. So, the Persians are absolutely
falling down on the ground on the job,
not rising up against the mullers. This
is a coordinated moment. Like, you know,
there's there's a moment for a prison
break. This would be it.
>> Who are the mullers in this city? the
Ayatollas, the government. Yeah. The the
theocratic government of Iran.
>> So, the rulers of Iran, basically, the
people that are Okay.
>> So, I don't know if if if you know a ton
of Persians. They're varied in their
religiosity,
but there's a you know, there's an
underground gay scene in Thrron. There's
super hyperodern
people just like you and me who can't
stand these guys.
>> And so, you're saying that if they rise
up,
>> they would that would be one of the
parts of the solution. The other thing
is Saudi Arabia and and I have to be
very measured and careful here. Um,
you can't fantasize about the Middle
East becoming Western Europe overnight.
Every time we do this, we make a
terrible mistake. When you have a
modernizer like MBS in Saudi Arabia,
>> who's the ruler of Saudi Arabia, right?
>> Deacto.
He can't
suddenly become a modern person. So, you
know, if if we end up talking about
Kosogible and murders and murdered
journalists and all this stuff, the
whole conversation will derail. But he's
a modernizer.
And there was a moment where he needed
to not condemn Israel publicly and thank
it privately,
but to say,
"We've all been terrorized by this
country, and Israel did what everyone
needed.
We needed to rise up against the mullers
because you can't have a nuclear
theocracy.
You can't have a highly developed notion
of heaven
where this is the this is the anti- room
where you're waiting to get into the
real room.
that issue
of needing to be rid of an as aspiring
nuclear theocracy
something that in that Israel undertook
now something that I'm going to say
there are three words in Yiddish which
you may have heard or may not may not
and neb
so there are three unfortunate people
you don't want to be any one of those
three but the subtlety is that the
schlamile is a klutz and the schlamile
spills hot soup on the schlamazle. So
the schlamazle is the unfortunate person
to whom bad things happen and the neb is
the weak ineffectual person who decides
that it's his job to clean up the mess.
So the schmile spills the scalding hot
soup on the schlamasle and the neb
cleans it up. Now, in the US, we've got
this terrible sort of Christian
nationalist
uh problem that we've developed, which
is what sometimes people call the woke
right, where we have a bunch of people
who've been badly treated.
White Christian Americans have been
badly treated in the woke era. They've
been forced to salute everybody else's,
you know, yay for uh, you know, I don't
know, Honduran lesbians day. And and
it's like, okay, enough. we don't we
don't want to do that anymore. We've
also done great things and I absolutely
think that they've been mistreated.
Yeah.
And they've gone sort of metastatic and
their attitude is no more wars for
Israel. America first. What I was
getting to with the Schlam Schlamas and
Nebbeck is that most Americans don't
have any idea who Kermit Roosevelt was.
Do you have any idea of who?
So the US and the UK jointly overthrew a
democratically elector in Iran through
something called Operation Ajax.
We installed the Shaw and then there's
this period where everybody stupidly
celebrates the miniskirts and the jazz
that was going through Tyrron
which was a bridge too far. In other
words, the miniskirts were a really bad
idea because they weren't they were
ready for some amount of modernization
and they weren't ready for that. And so
we pushed it too far and so we got the
mullers for 40 years and now we chop off
people's fingers and we pluck out
people's eyes and we put homosexuals on
ropes and dangle them from from cranes.
They're barbaric bar they're horrible
human beings. Okay, these are really bad
men, the mullers.
And we did that. So the scalding hot
soup is revolutionary
theocratic Iran. And we spilled it all
over the Middle East, which is the
schlamazle.
We spilled it on Saudi Arabia. We
spilled it on Iraq. We spilled it on
Israel. Everybody suffers from having
these people installed because of the US
and the UK instituting a problem back in
the 50s. And who's the ne
who cleans this up? Israel volunteers
for this job.
And then Saudi Arabia pretends, "Oh my
god, this is terrible.
Our our Muslim brother is being attacked
by our Jewish uh barbarian. I I I just
can't believe anybody's dumb enough to
fall for all of this.
Like, we're involved in a story where
nobody can sort things out. There's no
talking heads anyone believes in. And if
I didn't understand this, then how is it
that I have a tweet from, you know, 10
days after October 7th or I appeared on
trigonometry. I'm telling you, Israel
hasn't even walked into Gaza yet. And I
know what the strategy is.
Iran sent hypersonic missiles into the
ground in Israel as a message.
Violence is a language. And they spoke
it well. the the mullers may be crazy,
but they're still Persians. They're
they're extraordinarily skilled. And so
what they did is they wasted some of
their arsenal saying, "You have no Iron
Dome.
And we're not going to kill you. We're
going to put our missiles, we're going
to waste our missiles by sending them
into your Earth and try to kill no one."
And the Israelis, these brilliant,
genius Israelis who pull off all sorts
of things that the world can't believe,
are dumb enough, some of them, to say,
"Huh, they sent all these missiles and
they couldn't even hit anyone." And I'm
just thinking,
do do none of you understand anything? I
I just don't even know where I am.
And I'm looking at, you know, I I know
Tulsi.
>> Tulsi got it. Yeah, Tulsi is amazing.
>> She's the head of the intelligence
program for the United States.
>> Director of national intelligence,
right?
Tulsi has seen the devastation not of
war, but of US action abroad. Like we
haven't really had full wars, but we get
involved in Afghanistan or Iraq or
wherever. And and you know, people die
and there are firefights. It's not like
it has nothing to do with war, but
full-on war is is a very different
thing. We we say the Iraq war, but I I I
want to be very careful about the
language. You know, war usually involves
you getting rocked at home, not just
your your troops abroad.
I don't think she
I don't think she appreciates the
gravity of the situation that somehow
what we need to do is we need to
stabilize this thing for 50 to 100 years
while we desperately try to figure out a
long-term solution.
This idea of like just
we're not taking responsibility for the
world we already screwed up.
I don't want to send Americans I, you
know, I'm not an Israeli, I'm an
American. I don't want to send my fellow
Americans to die in foreign battles that
we have no business being in. But we
have to take ownership of our history
with oil and energy in the Middle East.
And
>> what does that look like? Taking
ownership?
>> Recognizing that we created the mullas
>> and doing what about it?
>> And wait, wait a second, not just that.
and that we also created a lot of the
heartache along with Sinoir and to a
much lesser extent Israel by forcing
this two-state solution
on people who would never put up with
it. Like I I lived in in Israel for two
years, and you would have conversations
with Arabs,
some of whom are Israelis,
you know, and they would say, "Look, you
know, you just don't understand the West
Bank, and you don't understand the
difference between the West Bank and
Gaza,
and they would tell me straight up,
you're going to get us all killed with
this two-state solution. Stop it."
And I, you know, it's very hard for me
to hear,
but we're just having a child's
conversation about the Middle East.
And I will say this about the UK.
The British Foreign Service had a
different failure mode than the US. They
really learned the regions.
They learned the dialects of the
languages of the countries that they
were involved in. The British Empire
took many places that they were involved
in seriously and they have a very
complicated legacy. You know, I'm I
spent a lot of time in Bombay and
there's a lot of debate among very
educated Indians
about figuring out how to think about
the the British legacy, all of the great
institutional structures that were
built, all of the prejudice and bigotry.
Why was such a small country able to
colonize such a large land? Basically
working with the locals. You know, it's
a rich conversation. We're having
childlike conversations about all of
this.
I'm sorry if I'm going on about this,
but
it's just a very weird thing that we're
we can't get anybody's attention.
You can't even get my attention. You
know, I'm watching hypersonic missiles
slam into the places I just was
and then I'm watching a cat video
and then I'm trying to figure out what
to order through Uber Eats and it's just
like I can't stay focused.
It's really important to put this um to
put this right. And the US screwed up
the Middle East along with the UK really
good. And we have a lot of
responsibility. And if we want to go
isolationist, I understand that. But you
first have to put back the chicken soup
that you spilled.
>> And how'd you do that?
>> I'm not sure. I'm not the director of
national intelligence. I'm not I'm not
the secretary of defense. I'm not in the
Oval Office. I mean, you know, it's very
weird. I was workmates with JD Vance,
you know.
These these are people who are,
you know, Bobby Kennedy lives one canyon
over from me in Los Angeles.
The people around
power in the US,
Godspeed, you know, just just wish them
well. I don't care what party you're in,
but to to try to sabotage Trump or
sabotage Tulsi or sabotage Pete Hex, I
these guys need to figure this out and
they need to be at a totally different
level.
>> And is figuring it out peace in the
region,
>> you know, the peace with between Egypt
and Israel is a shitty, crappy, horrible
peace, but it's peace.
It's not a loving relationship.
It's not a question of everybody going
back and forth between the two countries
saying, you know, we used to be enemies,
now we're friends. It's a lousy, cold
peace. I'll take it.
We need to have peace between Israel and
the Palestinian Arabs who can live in
peace. And we need the people who cannot
live in peace. We need to find someplace
else for them to be.
It is absolutely imperative. And by the
way, this goes for the Israelis. there
are small number of hardcore Israeli
settlers who cannot live uh you know in
peace with their neighbors and it's very
important that the people who cannot
live in peace not be there.
>> Do we need to go to are are you
suggesting that we
focus on regime change in Iran?
>> That is really the responsibility of the
Persians.
>> So I want to I want to get clear on what
you see as a solution because you're
saying the Persian people have to rise
up. the US need to care but not get
involved in that regime change.
>> I'm saying that a bunch of things need
to happen if we're to have a long-term
solution.
>> I make you president tomorrow.
>> I hate when people do this.
>> But I it's the clearest way of
understanding the actions you would
>> First of all, if I was president
tomorrow, I sure as hell wouldn't be on
a podcast discussing strategy with you.
>> Trump does it.
>> Yeah. I decline to answer all sorts of
questions on camera.
>> Fair.
>> Yeah. So my feeling is is that you do a
lot more behind closed doors and this
idea of just handing people you're the
king of the world. What do you do
tomorrow to stop you? It's like don't do
that to me because it's just it's a
no-win question. If I was going to I I
do a lot of Straussian communication.
I'd meet with people in private. I'd use
lots of carrots and sticks. I try to use
long range thinking and I wouldn't tell
you what my plan is. And by the way, I
very much respect Donald Trump in
certain ways. One of which is is that
and this confuses our friend Sam Harris
no end. Sam is always like, "Well, he's
not being truthful. He's not making
sense." He's a negotiator.
You don't sit down to a negotiation with
an open book saying, "Let me make sense
to you."
You sit there saying, "You don't know
what I'm going to do next. You don't
know how big the stick is. You don't
know how much carrot there is. Maybe I'm
prepared to give you more. Maybe my
stick isn't as big as you think. Or
maybe it's twice as big." Do you think
anyone has good answers?
>> I'll be honest. I think that Trump is in
part respected because he has some
intuitions about this stuff.
His intuition is not to say everything.
His intuition is that negotiation is
more important than transparency.
And at a time when everybody's craving
transparency, tell me everything.
No, I'm not going to tell you
everything.
I'm going to try to save some children
today.
I'm going to threaten. I'm going to
cajol.
I'm going to do all sorts of things. And
and you know, that's what I'd do. I
would I would assemble the best people
around me. I would stop giving so many
press conferences. I wouldn't tweet
every 4 seconds. I'd be extremely
strategic about it.
But
you know, the situation in Tel Aviv and
in Gaza makes me sick to my stomach.
And and in Ukraine,
almost all of my DNA comes from Ukraine.
At least passed through it.
I've been there.
And you know,
Russians in Ukraine, Ukraine used to be
known as little Russia.
This is a How are we sitting here
watching this?
What [__] decided in 2004
that we were just going to hand full
Article 5 status
to former Soviet
republics without consequence.
It is not the case that I don't I would
love to have Estonia, Latvia, and
Lithuania in NATO.
Not at this cost.
Look,
the world is a brutal, brutal place.
We've gotten really bad at at
international
understandings.
I can't stand what's happened to Europe.
Europe has been completely denatured.
We're we're playing with fire
everywhere. And I just I don't know how
to talk about it because every time I
talk about things where I'm the only
person who sounds like this,
it's bad for my life.
Look, if if you're in general a Ukraine
hawk and you say, you know, we need to
make sure that Ukraine is completely
supported so that they don't give an
inch of territory. Yeah, you'll take a
lot of crap, but you'll be in a large
group.
And if you basically have the idea that
Russia, you know, was minding its own
business and the US was encircling it
and good Russia, bad US,
you'll have a lot of company for that
perspective.
I don't sound like any of that.
The most important thing is to stabilize
the world again. And we're not going to
get another chance like World War II if
we're not smart. We're crazy to give up
this order that we have. And again, you
know, one more time I'm talking about
this stuff. And I don't want to be
talking about this stuff. Elon is 100%
right. We can't talk about problems all
the time. It's cheap meaning.
There's an entire universe to explore
and we're sitting here focused on our
own drama always and I'm getting sucked
into it. I don't want
I want to be talking about traveling
through time and space
using
Easter eggs and hidden features of what
we thought was the space-time continuum.
Because I talked about ketosis on this
podcast and ketones, a brand called
Ketone IQ sent me their little product
here and it was on my desk when I got to
the office. I picked it up. It sat on my
desk for a couple of weeks. Then one day
I tried it and honestly I have not
looked back ever since. I now have this
everywhere I go. When I travel all
around the world, it's in my hotel room.
My team will put it there. Before I did
the podcast recording today that I've
just finished, I had a shot of Ketone
IQ. And as is always the case when I
fall in love with a product, I called
the CEO and asked if I could invest a
couple of million quid into their
company. So, I'm now an investor in the
company as well as them being a brand
sponsor. I find it so easy to drop into
deep focused work when I've had one of
these. I would love you to try one and
see the impact it has on you, your
focus, your productivity, and your
endurance. So, if you want to try it
today, visit ketone.com/stephven
for 30% off your subscription. Plus,
you'll receive a free gift with your
second shipment. That's
ketone.com/stephven.
I'm excited for you. I am. Every single
one of you watching this right now has
something to offer, whether it's
knowledge or skills or experience. And
that means you have value. Stand, the
platform I co-own, who are one of the
sponsors of this podcast, turns your
knowledge into a business through one
single click. You can sell digital
products, coaching, communities, and you
don't need any coding experience either,
just the drive to start. This is a
business I really believe in. And
already $300 million has been earned by
creators, coaches, and entrepreneurs
just like you have the potential to be
on Stan's store. These are people who
didn't wait, who heard me saying things
like this, and instead of
procrastinating, started building, then
launched something, and now they're
getting paid to do it. Stan is
incredibly simple and incredibly easy.
And you can link it with a Shopify store
that you're already using if you want
to. I'm on it, and so is my girlfriend
and many of my team. So, if you want to
join, start by launching your own
business with a free 30-day trial. Visit
stephvenbartlet.stan.store
and get yours set up within minutes.
I've got this uh
this picture that I came across.
>> Tell me.
>> Um well, I'd love you to tell me. This
is the flower of life geometric model.
And I was I was reading through some of
your work and I came across this
sentence that said you'd kept a secret
for 30 years
in terms of your belief about the nature
of the reality that we live in and that
you thought maybe it was more than just
the dimensions we experience. Maybe
there was 14 dimensions.
I've always I wonder this a lot, you
know, because we we're fixated on
problems. We're fixated on what we see
and what we hear and what we feel. But I
wonder sometimes if if even that is an
illusion. I I've spent a lot of time
actually thinking recently about the
simulation theory and is this whole
reality just some simulation on some
kid's video game in another dimension.
Um so I thought you know you're a
physicist.
>> Do me a favor. Put that in a triangle
pattern here. Okay. So we have three
mugs.
Think of those as vertices of a
tetrahedrin and think of this coaster
floating here as the fourth vertex.
>> Mhm.
>> For every two vertices. So the number of
vertices we would agree is four.
>> Yeah. What's what does verticy mean?
>> Points.
>> Yeah. 1 2 3 four.
>> Idealize these three things and this as
points.
>> Mhm.
>> Draw a line segment between all of these
four vertices. How many line segments
are there?
>> One, two, three, four, five, six. Six.
>> Yep. So there's six edges, four
vertices. How many triangular faces that
have three vertices on them?
>> Oh, four.
>> Yeah. This is how to think about the
actual dimensions that we have open to
us. The four faces we know about.
The key point that I was trying to get
at is I don't believe that you just have
the four dimensions. I believe that you
have all six edges are dimensions
and all four vertices are also
dimensions.
I'm talking about a hidden world.
It's very interesting. Physics has gone
stagnant in terms of how we usually
measure progress. The the way we measure
progress is the change in something
called the action or the lrangeian the
specialized device and that used to
change a lot and then in 1973 it stopped
changing.
The major thing that we have is we have
no new ideas about how to change the
lrangeian that anybody finds that
exciting or interesting. So there's been
no progress. Nobody goes to Stockholm to
get a Nobel Prize because they changed
the lrangeian of the world.
>> What's the langrian?
>> The lrangeian.
So you probably think about physics in
terms of equations like Maxwell's
equations or the Einstein equations or
whatever.
Think about an equation
as being not the primary thing that
physicists think about. So I give this
example. The Beatles had four basically
different configurations.
When Ringo was the front man, he was
singing Octopus's Garden. George
Harrison is singing While My Guitar
Gently Weeps. You know, uh Paul is
singing about Penny Lane and John is
singing about Strawberry Fields Forever.
Those four equations,
those would be those different
configurations of the Beatles with one
of them front and everybody else backing
the front man
would be the equations. But the Beatles
would be the Lrangeian. It's the thing
that generates the four different
configurations.
>> Okay? And there's this bizarre force
field that anybody who wants to talk
about physics and doing something new in
particular leaving or traversing time
or multiple dimensions of time. Anything
that's really close to what might be
possible gets slammed.
We don't know why
because it's very cheap to explore ideas
and we have no new ideas.
But the only thing about a new idea in
physics is that a new idea changes the
balance of power in the world. Do you
remember the thing I was saying about
Alpha Fold 3?
>> Yeah.
>> Alpha Fold 3 changed the balance of
power in the world. Bitcoin changed the
balance of power in the world. The
diffuse proposal
from the ecoalth alliance
changed the balance of power in the
world if that was the source of the co
virus.
Anytime somebody has a really big idea
and the biggest idea and you know I talk
about this people don't grasp it
probably the most dangerous thought
anyone has ever had
was Rutherford in 1911 saying I wonder
whether
there's a neutral version of the proton.
It doesn't sound dangerous,
but it's hard to send a proton into a
bunch of protons because it's positively
charged and a massive nucleus is really
positively charged. And so there's a
repulsion.
If there's a neutral version of the
proton, and these things are barely
stuck together with a strong force, even
though they're trying to scream away
from each other because they want
they're all positively charged, you can
send a neutral version of the proton
right into the center.
tap and just imagine you have a bunch of
magnets that are trying to flee from
each other and the velcro around them is
barely holding it together. So now you
you have a bullet in the form of a
neutral proton, a neutron, and it hits
this thing where the magnets want to
come apart and the velcro is barely
holding it together. Well, that idea
led to the chain reaction
>> and the nuclear bomb.
>> Well, that that was the fision bomb and
then a geometer. So I'm a geometer and
not a physicist. And a physicist named
Edward Teller and the geometer is named
Stannis Loss Ulong
said, "I wonder if there's a way to take
the chemical bomb that creates the
fision bomb and use the fision bomb as
the detonator for a fusion bomb."
So bomb number one, bomb number two,
bomb number three. And what they figured
out was is that the only way to create
that
is to reflect light
in a particular way to compress
hydrogen into helium and release
energy
because anything other than light
wouldn't get to this the tertiary stage
fast enough before the atomic bomb like
you're using a Hiroshima Nagasaki as a
detonator. That's how crazy it is.
So that chain of ideas, which is maybe
there's a neutral version of the proton,
maybe I can send that into the middle of
an atom that's very heavy that was built
in a stellar collision.
Maybe if I have a bunch of those uranium
or plutonium type things, each one when
they break apart will have more neutrons
inside. That is more neutral protons
that will hit more nuclei that will
release more energy. And maybe that can
then focus the light, the gamma
radiation that comes off of this thing
or who knows what
to compress a narrow rod to create
fusion which only occurs on the sun in
the sun but but do it on Earth. So we're
going to take a little bit of the sun on
Earth. That chain of ideas
was the most dangerous thing anybody's
ever thought.
And that's why when you try to do
physics, you don't know. Why are people
making fun of me? Why are they being
mean? Why are they dissuading me from
talking? I don't know.
>> You have a suspicion.
>> Well, there was a guy named Jack Raper,
the unfortunately named Mr. Jack Raper,
who was a reporter in Cleveland
who for some reason during the war in
1944 decided to vacation in New Mexico.
So he goes to New Mexico and he comes
back and he says, "I've got a crazy
story.
There's a city that nobody knows about
with a mayor who's supposed to be the
second Einstein
and it's the most secretive city in the
world. And the mayor is working on a
doomsday weapon and even the people who
live in the city don't know what it is."
And he writes the story of Los Alamos
and publishes it in 1944.
The scoop of the millennium to say
nothing of the century. Nobody knows
about this article and it's called
Forbidden City.
>> We pretended that it never happened.
>> For those that don't know, Los Alamos is
where the atomic the nuclear bomb was, I
guess, conceived and brought to life and
tested.
>> Well, it was really it was really
designed there and most of the nuclear
processing took place at other sites,
whether Hanford or Oakidge, I'm not
sure.
And it was tested a short distance away
uh at the Trinity site. So go watch the
movie Oenheimer if you will. But this is
why physics physicists are the only
occupation in the country that doesn't
have full free speech.
So, are you suggesting that there's
dangers in believing in more dimensions
that maybe some people might not want to
be known in the same way that we didn't
want the
>> My point is I don't think our government
knows the real secrets of physics. If I
had to make a bet tomorrow, I don't
think there's a secret government office
that knows physics.
>> Okay. Mhm.
>> I think that there were a bunch of very
smart people who knew how dangerous
physics was and that the idea that we
would continue to do it in public struck
them as insane
>> because it could lead to destruction.
>> When I tell you that the most dangerous
idea in human history is maybe there's a
neutral version of the proton, that's
supposed to sound insane.
But the entire chain of ideas results
in nuclear fusion happening on Earth at
the direction of the president of the
United States. And that's what I'm
trying to get at which people don't
understand which is you probably don't
even realize that the department of
energy is really the department of
physics
because we we we pretend that it's the
department of energy. Like we had a war
department that became the department of
defense. We're scared of the possibility
of physics.
>> We don't even want to talk about it.
The the literally no other occupation
has lost free speech like physics.
There's a special doctrine called
restricted data that says you cannot
write physics on a napkin
even if you have nothing to do with the
government. I think even if you're not
an American
if it has anything that could possibly
have to do with nuclear weapons. In
other words, any advance
that might have to do with nuclear
weapons,
you have to recognize that the instant
you put pen to paper or you start
talking to somebody, you're committing
a violation of the 1917 Espionage Act.
And if you think that's crazy, start
exploring the words restricted data,
1917 Espionage Act, 1946 and 1954 Atomic
Energy Acts, the doctrine of born
secret.
It is illegal to pursue Q clearance data
if you don't have a Q clearance. But if
you're creating Q clearance data out of
your own head as a byproduct of trying
to do physics,
you are actually potentially committing
a capital offense.
>> And your theory of everything, your
theory, the theory you just talked to me
about there, what does that mean for the
for the average person that's listening
to this in terms of that they should
>> Well, this is my point. Did Rutherford
know what he was doing?
>> No.
>> So, I talk about this a lot, but I do
think it's probably one of the greatest
lyrics ever in any song. And
unfortunately, it occurs in a song that
got way too popular. Um,
the baffled king composing Hallelujah.
That line,
a baffled king does not realize what he
is doing when he composes. Rutherford
was a baffled king.
Maybe there is a neutral version of the
proton.
He was composing the end of the human
race.
>> And your ideas about the nature of
reality.
>> I'm a baffled person.
>> And your proposal.
>> I am baffled. I don't know what it leads
to is what I'm trying to tell you.
>> But your assertion is that there's more
than this dimension that we understand
and more than
>> I'm telling you that I can name for you
what particles there are left to be
found.
>> Mhm. And the what comes back to me
is you don't have any predictions. And
I'm thinking
this doesn't even make sense.
Literally, I'm telling you there are
maybe there's a neutral version of the
proton doesn't begin to talk about all
the things that I'm talking about.
So many new forces, so many new
particles, ways to go in. There's no
longer an arrow of time in my theory.
So you could live forever theoretically.
>> What does it mean
if if you think about a final theory?
And again, by the way, I just want to
say something. I say my theory sometimes
when I'm having to defend it, but it
isn't mine. It it it just is.
You know, Everest didn't belong
to Sir Edmund Hillary or to Mallerie or
even to the surveyor for whom the
mountain is named.
When you chose to make the first descent
on Everest,
you just chose a route and then you e
either did or did not traverse the
route. We don't know whether Mallalerie
may have succeeded, but my point is that
this isn't my theory.
There is a theory that's there. It might
be wrong. It's possible. I may have
screwed it up,
but
it's got so much in it that I have no
idea what it means.
>> And the simple way to understand this
theory is that there's dimensions that
exist beyond the ones that we know.
>> We already know from Einstein that these
dimensions are implicitly in Einstein's
theory. Every single dimension that I'm
talking about is being constructed out
of the four that we began with. When I
put the cups here and the coaster,
the edges were calculated from the
vertices and the faces were calculated
from the edges.
>> My point being these dimensions are
already here.
And because the dimensions are already
here, they were already present in
Einstein's theory all along. When you
ask for what Einstein's real equation
is, we actually don't think about it
that way. We call it the Einstein field
equations plural. How many of them are
there? 10. Why are there 10?
Because there are
six edges
and four vertices that weren't accounted
for. They're already in Einstein's
theory.
We just didn't take them seriously as
directions you could go in.
>> You've heard about this simulation
theory, haven't you?
>> Well, I don't want to talk about it
>> really.
>> Well, again, it's the LLM problem. The
really interesting thing comes from I
don't know. And maybe the maybe the
cosmos is traversible.
Maybe times travel replaces time travel.
You see, if I flip all of the dimensions
of time and space, so I have one of
time, three of space in Einstein's
theory. Okay, the time dimension gets a
minus sign. The three spatial dimensions
get a plus sign.
>> And the three spatial dimensions are
>> X, Y, and Z.
>> Yeah,
>> zed, forgive me.
>> Which is for for a simple person,
>> depth, width, and height.
>> Yeah, you can go like forward,
backwards, up, down.
>> Right.
>> Okay. So, we have three dimensions
there. And then we have one of time
because the conversation takes place
over time. You're moving around.
Now flip
the time dimension to being plus when it
was minus before and all the plus
dimensions to being minus. So I have now
I have three time dimensions and one
space dimension. It would look exactly
the same.
The one space dimension would take the
function of time and the three time
dimensions would have the function of
space. We don't even teach people the
idea
that there is not necessarily an arrow
of time if time is not one-dimensional.
The only dimension that has an arrow is
one. If something has one dimension, you
can say,
and you know, I tried to do this on
Rogan. I said, "If you have a cassette
tape and you want to go back to an
earlier song, again, your younger
listeners will have no idea what we're
talking about." Um, you have to go back
through all of the songs before, but if
you have a stylus on a turntable, some
of them will be hipsters with vinyl in
their own homes. You can lift the stylus
up and it doesn't need to go back and
unplay each song in reverse.
>> Mhm.
>> Okay. You may be able to go back in time
without going back through time.
I don't know what this means, but it's a
lot like saying maybe there's a neutral
version of the proton. Now, what I'm
concerned about is that essentially none
of my physics friends know that there is
a doctrine of restricted data. They've
never heard of the 1946 and 54 atomic
energy acts. They don't know that the
department of energy that funds them is
really the the department of physics.
They don't know the extent to which we
went to hide all of this stuff. They
don't know that they're not allowed to
talk to foreign nationals from hostile
nations on our own soil because of a
doctrine called deemed exports. There's
an entire hidden world of national
security. And the penalty for talking
about national security with people who
don't live that is that you're a
conspiracy theorist. It's like, do you
have this terminology? Do you know the
axe? Do you want to Google it? Well,
you're This is also just something
that's really interesting about the UFO
UAP world. We had this admission
recently
that the government knew that at a
minimum, and again, I don't think this
is by anywhere close to the full story.
At a minimum there were secret fake
special access programs. Do you know
about special access programs? Su super
secret programs are called special
access programs.
Then there's a further category called
unagnowledged special access programs or
USPS which is you can know that a
special access program exists
like you know maybe warhead recovery is
a might be a known one but then like
there might be an uncknowledged special
access program which is like theft of
foreign nuclear warheads which we it's
not even on the books only only the
super secret lawmakers uh you know in
the gang of eight or whatever it can
know that that exists. And then there
are further designations of secretness.
There's waved and bigoted. So you can
have like a waved bigoted unagnowledged
special access program and you don't
know any of this language.
And then there's this chorus of morons
who the instant you start to educate
people about the existence of the sup
super secret squirrel club
rise up and say
this is all conspiracy theory
and you're saying wait a second we just
admitted in UFO UAP land that we have a
fake special access program which I
predicted on Joe Rogan. And I said, "We
may be faking a UFO situation."
The cost and the penalty at a personal
level for letting people know how the
government keeps secrets is personal
destruction.
>> The US faked UFO program.
>> Yes, correct. You don't know about this.
I think the Wall Street Journal had an
article about it. So these guys knew
when they filed their reports on the UFO
UAP that there actually is at a minimum
a fake UFO UAP program.
>> Why would they want to fake UFOs?
>> This is so weird.
Did you did you happen to watch Joe
Rogan episode 1945 where I talked about
the whole history of the golden age of
general relativity and its relationship
to UFO UAP anti-gravity research and the
atomic bomb?
>> I didn't know.
>> Okay.
When we invaded
the beaches of Normandy on D-Day,
that was called Operation Overlord.
We had an entirely fake invasion planned
of Norway called Operation Fortitude
that was part of Operation Bodyguard,
which is part of just total deception.
And why? Because we were building up
troops to do something huge. So we tried
to convince, we like planted plans for
the invasion of Norway on dead bodies to
wash up on beaches so Germans would find
them. We fake stuff all the time. That's
what we do.
And you can't talk about what we do that
is deceptive without being ruined by
what are called covert influence
operations.
Like if you'll you watch my Twitter
account, you'll see all sorts of
accounts descend on it. Fraud Charlotte
and Grifter blah blah blah blah blah
blah.
Some of that is just people being mean.
But you'll notice that like if I really
start talking about physics and I start
talking about security and I start
talking about things that anyone can
Google and most of us don't think to do
it,
suddenly it gets really really intense.
And the whole point is it's supposed to
be untraceable.
It's supposed to be a way in which like
almost certainly we know a ton about
what happened in the Wuhan Institute of
Viology
because of two bioweapons conventions
that we were signitaries to and which we
ratified the Geneva Convention and a
bioweapons convention in the 1970s. But
that's not top of mind for ordinary
people. They just watched, you know,
their great grandma die and they watched
their children get sick and they watched
their own brain fog.
They can't know whether that was a
bioweapon that we were working on coming
out of the University of North Carolina
Chapel Hill with Ralph Bareric's lab.
You know, we're we're up to constant
secret stuff. Why would they fake the
UFOs, though? What was the what was that
distraction? Have you ever seen the B2
bomber?
>> Yeah.
>> What if you saw that before we were
ready to say it existed?
>> Yeah. You'd think it was a UFO or
something.
>> So, wouldn't it be better if we had a
UFO story ready to go when we had cool
aerospace?
>> Oh, okay. So, you're saying they're
working on something which they didn't
want you to know.
>> What's more, what if we convinced China
or Russia or Iran
that we had incredible powers that they
don't have?
>> Then they might be very reluctant to
strike us.
or they might waste a tremendous amount
of money developing anti-gravity
technology when there's no such thing.
There are plenty of good reasons to fake
such thing. Why would we fake an why
would we plan an invasion of Norway if
we weren't going to invade?
>> But if that's a distraction technique,
do you have any hypothesis as to what
was going on there?
>> But that's not my job.
>> Okay.
Because as soon as you do that, I know
that my the quality of my guessing is
not going to be at the quality of my
detecting when we're up to [__]
>> Okay?
>> So, in other words, if you ask me
why is physics stagnant,
I can say I don't know, but there's a
decent chance that we know how dangerous
physics is and that it's crazy to do it
in an open university environment. We've
taken precautions. We have a system of
national laboratories which are
effectively our secret university system
uh where you have to be an American. So
we we're using our regular universities
and the whole world comes through it.
You know we have Chinese people learning
physics side by side our own people.
>> And I guess you're saying that you don't
know if UFOs exist but you you're you're
sure now that they were faking this. I
am absolutely positive that we have
unagnowledged programs
that have UFO written on the side of
them.
>> Okay.
>> In other words, the number of people who
repeat who repeat strikingly similar
things
who appear to be completely sober in
every other respect with no known acting
ability. There is no way in the world
that these people just spontaneously
have decided to destroy their sanity,
their career, and their reputation.
>> I've got you.
>> At a minimum, we're faking.
I think we are doing a lot more than
faking a UFO program.
I don't know what it is and I also would
not be talking about this on a large
podcast, but for one thing,
I have a particular hatred for one
aspect of our intelligence community.
And I I don't mean that I dis disagree
or don't like or I'm not uncomfortable
when our secret squirrel club inside the
intelligence world and inside in
particular covert operations targets our
own people who are not read into these
programs for personal destruction,
reputational destruction, mental
destruction, economic destruction. We
take our best people and we make fun of
them and we belittle them and we destroy
their families, their lives, their
ability to earn.
I have a very strong sense that you
never destroy your best people.
>> Do you think you're under attack?
>> Let me talk about Leo Zillard instead.
Leo Zillard is the father of the
Manhattan Project,
>> which was the where the nuclear bomb was
created.
>> That's right. He was not allowed to go
inside the Manhattan Project because
they didn't trust him. He was a genius.
He was the idea for the Manhattan
Project. He and Einstein made sure that
it happened.
The government barely trusted
Oppenheimer. If you saw the film,
what they did with Leo Zillard was they
minded him. They knew how good he was.
They knew how important he was. They
listened to him and they didn't destroy
him. He undoubtedly knew that the
program was going on,
but he wasn't allowed inside the
program.
I think that's okay.
I think it's okay that our security
state
recognizes that some people are not cut
out to keep secrets. Some people are not
cut out
to die with certain facts that have to
be kept hidden. That's fine.
the desire of our government to destroy
people who have no idea what they've
tripped over because our government
isn't good enough to keep its own
secrets.
This is an abomination.
You cannot destroy your a team.
>> Who are you referring to when you say
people are being destroyed? Are you
referring to people like yourself?
You know, if you look at, for example,
Jeffrey Epstein,
Jeffrey Epstein conducted a conference
called Confronting Gravity.
I don't know who Jeffrey Epstein was,
but I'll I would certainly bet money
that he was a product of at least one
uh or more elements of the intelligence
community.
>> The CIA, the FBI,
>> that those are ours, right? Department
of Homeland Security has some of the
stuff. Geospatial Intelligence has some
of this. You know, it's a it's a large
network. Um, I'm talking about people
like David Grush.
I'm talking about people potentially
like David Fraver.
I'm talking about people like Jake
Barber.
I'm talking about scientists
like Leo Zillard. Imagine if Leo Ziller
didn't know that the Manhattan Project
was going on or Jack Raper, a journalist
who broke a story. These people all
think that they're doing their jobs.
I desperately want to know why Jeffrey
Epstein knew so much about my work
and I want to know why he was connected
to my graduate program.
I was I was in the Harvard mathematics
department. Jeffrey Epstein was
absolutely connected to the Harvard math
department. I want to know why.
>> How was he connected to the math
department?
>> You're pushing me to say things I'm not
going to say.
>> I'm curious. I'm not trying to push you.
>> I understand, but I'm just not going to
do it. I'm saying that anybody who wants
>> You say he was connected to the math
department
>> to the Harvard mathematics department.
>> How did you know he was connected?
>> You can Google it. You could Google it
right now.
This is not I I can point at all sorts
of stuff that's hidden in plain sight.
>> So, I'll take your word for it. And the
assertion that I'm picking up on is that
Jeffrey Epstein was planted in your
world to keep
>> I'm not saying he's planted. I don't
know who he was. I don't know who ran
him. He certainly was not a financeier
in any standard sense.
>> Really,
>> that was a cover story. Yes. The way
that we know Jeffrey Epstein in the UK
especially is just this guy who was this
rich guy who had this island who brought
people there and then did these
despicable things that
>> disgraced financeier Jeffrey Epstein.
>> Yeah, that's what we that's the story.
>> Disgraced financier Jeffrey Epste. It's
called proveration. He was a disgraced
financeier. What kind of a finance year
or disgraced one? What was his name? Oh,
he was disgraced financier Jeffrey
Epstein.
>> They proceverate that into your mind so
that you autocomplete that in your LLM
life.
Do you believe that that's what Jeffrey
Epstein was?
>> You met him? You
>> Yeah, I can tell that finance finance
year.
>> He wasn't a finance year the day I met
him.
>> What was he?
>> He was a weird guy who didn't seem to
know a lot about currency trading,
claiming to run a multi-billion dollar
FX hedge fund.
>> When you say a weird guy, what made him
weird?
>> Same stuff I've said on Chris William.
I'm not going to go back through that.
Just my my point is you're getting a
different interview, right?
>> So, what I'm trying to get at is Jeffrey
Epstein knew a tremendous amount about
my work when nobody knew anything about
my work and he had a pipeline into me
that I didn't understand which is that
he was connected to my graduate program.
And you can check out the conference
called Exploring Gravity uh
>> and hosted physical workshop called
Confronting Gravity.
>> Confronting gravity. That's right. in
March 2006.
>> Yeah. What is Jeffrey Epste? Jeffrey
Epstein is very focused on gravity.
>> Was it a gravity conference? It was
about gravity.
>> Yeah.
>> What the [__] was he doing talking about
bloody gravity if he's a finance year?
>> It was very important to get Nobel
laureates and some of the smartest
people on earth to come to the Virgin
Islands and talk about gravity. Steven
Hawkins was there. David Gross was
there. Lawrence Krauss was there. Lisa
Randall was there right before his
conviction.
And I'm telling you, he was very focused
on the Harvard math department.
and he knew all about me in ways that he
wasn't supposed to.
>> I have to I have to be clear. I have to
be clear on my understanding of what
you're saying. From what I understood
and you can say, Steve, I'm not going to
answer that. Whatever. But I just have
to because you've opened up a curiosity
hole in my mind. So, let me try and fill
it. Even if it's the conversation you
had with Chris,
>> um
>> I'll just evade you if
>> fine. you're within the right to evade
me and I hold the right to ask which is
um
>> so is what I'm hearing is you believe
and I'm just going to say it how I think
it is what I'm hearing is you believe
that Jeffrey Jeffrey Epstein was not a
financier he was planted in some way to
>> he was a construct is what I said
>> he was a construct in some way to
mess with the
progression of physics
>> Jeffrey Epstein
Apparently, I think some I'll tell you
what I said when I met him. When the
meeting was over, I immediately called
my wife and I said, "I have just met a
construct." She said, "What do you
mean?" I said, "This person is not who
they claim to be. Somebody has
constructed this human being to be
something that they are not." Which is a
hedge fund genius. Somebody who could
understand the euro and the yen like
nobody else. [__] Not true.
I believe that whoever constructed
Jeffrey Epstein was running multiple
different programs through the same
thing, having put in a large initial
investment.
It wasn't about one thing. If you build
a mall, you don't just have clothing
stores in the mall. You have a food
court in the mall, right? You have
jewelry in the mall. You you you have
all sorts of different things in the
mall.
Jeffrey Epstein was a construct of
something
that was running multiple things. One of
those things was science. And I don't
think that the science and the
pedophilia were necessarily in the same
bucket. He was funding all sorts of
people. I don't think everybody at that,
you know, part of the problem with
calling his plane the Lolita Express and
calling his island pedophile island is
that you just can't see all the
different things that were going through
this guy.
I don't think almost any of those
scientists are exposed, you know, maybe
a few of them, but very few of them to
anything really horrible. I think he was
trying to keep a periscope on everything
that was interesting.
And I think that his girlfriend's
father, Robert Maxwell, was all through
scientific publishing.
And I think Pergamont Press was in part
a control mechanism
for making sure that revolutionary
discoveries were taking place within a
framework.
Anybody can look,
you can write a Substack article and you
can hit post and suddenly the world has
access to your Substack article. That is
a nightmare. What if somebody posts, you
know, weaponized anthrax?
What if they do the equivalent of
saying, "What if there's a neutral
proton?"
>> So, you think he was controlling
science?
>> I think that Robert Maxwell was in part
trying to control science. I think
Jeffrey Epstein was in part trying to
fund science, trying to control it. I
don't really know.
Again, you know, part of the problem
with why conspiracy theorists have a bad
name is that they're not content to live
in ignorance, and I mean, I am
I know something is really off with this
story.
If if you look at me saying things like,
"You don't know whether Biden is going
to make it to November." Haha, Eric, you
know what an idiot. Blah blah blah.
Okay, then he has a debate. He doesn't
make it to November.
You know, I'm not Nostradamus. I'm just
dumb enough to say something in public
that that makes sense. Let me say
something in public that makes sense.
Our national security people suck at
their jobs.
the people who are in charge of the
department of energy which is masking
the department of physics which is m
masking the department of nuclear
weapons right the atomic energy acts
which are really about atomic weaponry
recast as atoms for peace or who knows
what Jeffrey Epstein who is not a
disgraced finance seere
the newspapers that have always had a
national interest component and have
liaison so that they can work with the
CIA and the state department and they do
each other's bidding and scratch each
other. This whole network
is the is what I've called managed
reality. We live in managed reality.
We are all in some version of The Truman
Show.
And you can look at it. You can Google
it. I can give you a million search
terms. And every time I give a million
search terms, you'll watch my reputation
get torn apart.
Are you are you going to blame me that
you didn't know what the whole of
society approach is because you didn't
know the Daniel Inaway Center for
Security in the Pacific came up with an
idea for soft fascism to fight hybrid
wars? You didn't know what hybrid
warfare? Look, look at my talk at ARC,
Jordan Peterson's group, the Alliance
for Responsible Citizenship. It's almost
two million views. And why is it?
Because people are saying, "I didn't
know these terms.
Did you know what the Human Terrain
Project is? You know, do you know about
human terrain? You're a mountain. I'm a
valley and instead of war uh planners
figuring out how do we use that valley
to capture that mountain top because it
gives us a an eagle's nest, you know, to
snipe from or whatever. They say, "Okay,
this is the second most powerful podcast
in the in the world, second to Joe
Rogan. How do we capture him?"
>> [__] Leave me alone, please.
>> No, but that's what I'm trying to say.
You're human terrain.
>> Yeah.
>> When the human terrain wakes up and
says, "Wait a minute. I'm human terrain.
Well, my feeling is if you don't want me
to talk about this on a podcast, then
keep your terms separate. Nobody knew
the term pre-bunked malinformation. Do
you know what pre-bunked malinformation
is?
>> Malinformation is information we don't
want to get out.
Technically, people try to pretend that
it's information that will be
misinterpreted, but really it's real
stuff that is delotterious to the
narratives that we're trying to push
forward and what we're trying to do. And
prebunked means discredited.
So, we know what debunked. We have to
debunk disinformation. We get that. But
you didn't know that we had to prebunk
malinformation, which is we have to
destroy truth tellers.
>> What do you think that means for people
like me as podcasters? you know, because
we're doing these long form
conversations. I take
>> you'll snap back, you'll say, "That was
a really interesting talk."
And then you'll have somebody else on
who'll be talking about the importance
of melatonin and how we don't understand
uh the role of sleep. And you'll have
somebody else, you know, on who will be
talking about how do you do a uh a
clothing brand from scratch uh and turn
it into a billion-dollar unicorn.
You're not going to stay here on this
topic.
This is your time with me and it'll have
some effect and it'll start to fade.
And and and that's what this is.
I'd love to be doing my podcast.
I just don't know how to do it safely.
I want to talk about taking our lives
back from the intelligence community. I
want to talk about taking our lives back
from Silicon Valley. Even though those
people are my friends, I want to talk
about taking my life back from the
phone,
from despair, from not having a future.
I want to talk about having a glorious
existence that is not mediated by morons
who sit inside the beltway and play with
large budgets and hurt people.
Particularly really good people who are
good at their job, who are trying to
figure out how to advance
humankind, their family, the national
interest, and get fouled.
I I did not ask for Jeffrey Epstein to
fall into my life.
I met him once,
but it was enough to know, "Holy cow,
the Harvard math department can't be
what I think it is." Why was he there? I
didn't even know. I never heard his name
when I was there.
>> Is that where you met him in in Harvard?
>> No, no, no.
I think what very powerful people at JP
JP Morgan told me I needed to meet him.
He didn't want to talk about finance.
He wanted to talk about science.
>> You can't do your podcast safely.
Do you
>> My employer was a special informant to
the FBI.
He's like one of my closest friends. I'm
not going to say who it is.
>> Your employer?
>> Yeah. And one of my closest friends.
I I live under a periscope.
practice scope is really what I meant.
But
yeah, I I don't I want to do physics,
man.
I'm really really good at it,
you know.
And if we have an idea that we shouldn't
do physics in public, I would like to
have a call from somebody inside.
Hey, Eric, we we need you to come in.
Okay, great. What's up?
But I didn't use your resources. cuz I
didn't use your grants.
Nobody ever informed me. My god, nobody
ever informed me about restricted data.
How many people on earth know that
there's a doctrine that says physicists
don't have free speech?
We can execute you for doing your job.
It's never been tested in the courts,
and I hope that the Supreme Court will
not allow that. But, you know, if we
have a problem that is so serious in
theoretical physics
that it needs the the world's largest
exemption from free speech, we need to
amend the Constitution. You can't just
do this as a sneak attack where you
reserve the right casually to hook the
1917 Espionage Act up against the 1946
and 54 Atomic Energy Acts.
I I've canvased my physics colleagues
You know, like one of the memes against
me, which is very funny, is that no
physicists take me seriously when I'm in
their offices all the time.
I I just don't know what my life is.
And And with this latest advent of war
in the Middle East,
are you really going to pretend that if
you can Google all of these things that
I have no idea what I'm talking about?
I'm looking to have a conversation with
my own government.
I'm looking to have a conversation about
theoretical physics.
And I can do it quietly, but I have
rights. And I do not believe that the
1946 and 1954 Atomic Energy Acts are
constitutional.
Try me.
There is no restricted data. You can't
do that to an American.
And you can't just keep mounting covert
influence campaigns. You know,
I just spent five days in the physics
department. I'm not allowed to say that
it was five days in the physics
department as a visitor. I gave a talk.
I'm not allowed to say that I gave a
talk.
I don't know what this is.
And I'm tired of it, you know? It's just
like
if you're managing the Middle East this
badly, if you're managing physics this
badly, if you're managing the national
economy this badly, if you screwed up
COVID this badly by getting inside of
the Lancet and nature,
you know, peer review is this fake thing
that supposedly stretches back to the
founding of the Royal Society. And it's
very clear from the scholarship around
it that it comes out of n period between
1965 and 1975 initiated by the Medicare
act predicated on the need for uh
editors for the journal expansion
founded by Pergamont Press and Robert
Maxwell. By 1975,
there's a giant battle between the NSF
and both fiscal and cultural
conservatives
against something called man a course of
study or makos where peerreview
was born in a Utah clinic. Uh came out
of the medical literature because the
federal government in 1965 with the
Medicare act picked up the need to pay
for so many medical procedures. They
wanted to say why are we assigning this
many medical procedures? The doctors
circled the wagons and said we will
peerreview each other. Then in by 1975
the NSF was under the um microscope and
they used peer review as a self-defense
of of last resort to say we will be
reviewing each other. Right? Peer review
is a myth.
The scholarship is clear as day.
I I can't keep going on the world's
largest podcasts saying everything that
can be googled and figured out and just
constantly have as my reward that the
government refuses to have a
conversation with me and sends its its
gaggle of uh of idiots to harass me.
>> You think it's doing that? It's sending
a gaggle of
>> Yes, I do. I do think I think that some
of them are actual idiots who just enjoy
having causing problems. But I think
more than anything, we have a real
problem. Science is too powerful.
The real, if you wanted to just cut to
the ultimate core of this.
If four amino acids can shut down planet
Earth.
If, what is it, a nine-page paper
solving the double spend problem can
create a new currency not backed by
violence, but backed by mathematics.
If the concept of an inner product in a
large vector space
generates something you can't tell isn't
a human being
in 2017.
Do you have any idea what the power of
the human mind is at this point? Linear
algebra
can create something that you would fall
in love with.
It can create the most beautiful music
you can imagine, or it can animate a
photo of a dead relative so that you can
actually have the experience of having
some video of you with a great
grandparent you can't even remember.
Science is the most amazing, powerful,
crazy stuff possible. And we spend a
fortune trying to convince people that
scientists are worthless, that
scientists are incapable.
And in large measure, they've convinced
the scientists themselves, my my
colleagues, the supposed physicists
will spend their entire lives pretending
to do physics and retire without ever
having actually done any. I was in this
physics department I was just in. It's
been a long time since I since I've
spent that long as a visitor.
The top people in this physics
department
professed that they had no interest in
the physical world.
that they only cared about the
mathematics that they were doing. And I
just thought, you're in a theoretical
physics
group
and you profess openly that you have no
interest whatsoever in the physical
world. Well done. I don't know who you
were. I don't know how you did it, but
it took you four decades to get the
physicists to stop caring about the phys
physical world.
Somehow what we did
is we stopped the world's most powerful
and the world's most important group
from making progress. And why Elon Musk
is not out here
saving this by just throwing a few
billion at it. You know, Elon, if you're
out there, it's at Astra. Yes or no?
Mars is a stop gap message. Do you want
to go to the stars? Is there something
we don't know? To the Department of
Energy. Do you want to have
conversations?
Is there anyone at all out here? That's
my question. That's why I do the
podcasts. And it's, by the way, I'm
repeating myself. I've said this before.
Send lawyers, guns, and money. There's
no one out here.
But I will say this, if we could get out
of here,
you know, in terms of transcendence, in
terms of things that are really
exciting, there's nothing that I had
greater pleasure at as a father than
taking my children for meteor showers.
We take the dog, go to a secret location
outside of Los Angeles that's quite
dark. We just lie under the sky and
watch for hours, you know, and look up
at the heavens and think, "My god,
that's a destination. That's some place
I could go."
I don't think that there's a more
inspiring thing than to figure out the
infinity of space. all of these galaxies
and the deep field photographs of these
space telescopes
filled with worlds and we're stuck here.
It's like it's enough already. Time to
go. Let's have some fun. That's that's
really what I'm excited about.
Been great. Great to be here.
>> Thank you for being here. Super
fascinating and it spun my brain in
several different directions at the same
time.
I want to I want to bring it um back to
the person who's who's got to the end of
this conversation and they're sat at
home in their box of shorts, maybe
listening on their iPhone as they fall
asleep, wherever they are in the world
or on a train or plane or whatever, and
allow you to offer them some kind of
closing message that might make their
life better in some way. It's a broad
brief, but I think it's the most
important brief, which is, you know, can
having heard everything we've talked
about today.
What advice would you give the listener,
an actionable piece of advice so that
they could live a subjectively better
life?
The songs of Tom Ler are pretty
terrific, as are the operetas of Gilbert
and Sullivan. You might want to explore
the Azors as well as the Indonesian
archipelago. Indonesian is one of the
easiest languages to learn because it's
been denuted of most of the complexity
that screw up people who have a hard
time learning other languages. Buy a
poster of tropical fruit and make sure
that you visit every single one on that
poster before it's time for lights out.
Consider box B minor mass and the cello
suites particularly by Pablo Casal and
take a serious listen to Eva Cassidy
uh singing Stormy Monday in an album
called Live from Blues Alley to see if
uh you really know how to feel things. I
think Professor Longair's Big Chief is
one of the most brilliant pieces of
piano music. It's absolutely inspiring.
And if you really like that, James Carol
Booker III has an album called The
Resurrection of the Bayou Maharaja.
Seriously, think about visiting the
island of St. Helena in the South
Atlantic.
Take a look at Kurt Jiongal's channel.
He's doing amazing stuff being done by
no one else on Earth. I think that Chris
Buck is really amazing. And if you think
that Crossroads is good, have a listen
to his version of Miss You by the
Rolling Stones. an incredible groove and
I didn't really appreciate it the first
time I heard it. I think that the people
making Spark amps at Positive Grid and
the my friends at Neural DSP
uh with the Quad Cortex will blow your
mind with how much great audio equipment
you can make. You can get a good
electric guitar for a few hundred bucks
thanks to advances in China. put it into
an open tuning and buy yourself a slide
or just slide a glass along it and
you'll be able to play most songs that
you'd care about within a minute or two,
maybe three, because you only need three
chords.
Get married. It may not work out. It may
be miserable. Have some kids. There's
nothing else great to do on this planet.
At least give it a try. And if your
parents won't pressure you to do it, I'm
happy to do it.
Try to keep this thing going.
Try to keep this thing going. Try to
dream big about legacy. Don't feel
embarrassed about wanting to conquer the
world or leave a permanent stain. Get
out of this moment where everybody's
worried about narcissism and drama.
Listen for meteor showers. They're
announced regularly. Nobody actually
does anything about them. And it's worth
inconveniencing yourself with people you
love and take the dog.
really seriously think about you whether
you want to pile on when you see what is
almost certainly a federal or other
campaign targeting people who are
standing up for you. Whether they're
trying to figure out where COVID came
from, trying to figure out who was
behind Jeffrey Epstein, recognize that
almost everything you've been taught to
do in terms of hating Israel as part of
somebody's campaign out ofQatar. The
situation in Gaza is incredibly dire.
Don't stop caring about the people who
are living under that. Recognize that
the Persians are not the Mullers. Get
involved.
Wish your wish your country's leadership
well. Even if you didn't vote for them
and you think that they're horrible
people, they've got very hard work to
do. Be good to each other. Try. It's a
grand adventure.
And um make sure you have some fun
before it lights out.
That's it.
We have a closing tradition where the
last guest leaves a question for the
next guest, not knowing who they're
leaving it for. And the question that
was left for you
I love this question. What is the
problem that you are doing the most
mental gymnastics to avoid?
Pass.
No, I know the answer. It's not
appropriate for your audience.
One of the things about being in the hot
seat on podcasts
is that it is not right to force anyone
to respond to a question. I know how to
falsify an answer to that and I'm not
going to do that and I'm not going to
share the answer to that question
because it's not appropriate. But it's a
great question. Feel free to leave it
for someone else. This doesn't seem
fair. Whoever you were, thank you for
the question. Obviously, my reaction was
just tremendous curiosity, which would
be a natural reaction to what you just
said.
>> Thank you for a great interview.
>> Thank you so much for being here. I
really appreciate you. No, it's so
unbelievably fascinating and uh you've
given me so much. Unfortunately, you've
given me a lot of answers, but you've
given me even more questions and maybe
that's the product of a good
>> You live in LA.
>> Yeah,
>> we'll do it again.
>> Thank you so much for your time. I
really appreciate you.
>> We appreciate you.
>> Thank you. Thanks.
We launched these conversation cards and
they sold out. And we launched them
again and they sold out again. We
launched them again and they sold out
again because people love playing these
with colleagues at work, with friends at
home, and also with family. And we've
also got a big audience that use them as
journal prompts. Every single time a
guest comes on the diary of a CEO, they
leave a question for the next guest in
the diary. And I've sat here with some
of the most incredible people in the
world. And they've left all of these
questions in the diary. And I've ranked
them from one to three in terms of the
depth. one being a starter question. And
level three, if you look on the back
here, this is a level three, becomes a
much deeper question that builds even
more connection. If you turn the cards
over and you scan that QR code, you can
see who answered the card and watch the
video of them answering it in real time.
So, if you would like to get your hands
on some of these conversation cards, go
to the diary.com or look at the link in
the description below.
Heat. Heat. N.
[Music]
I see.
Hey
[Music]